
The recent meeting by President Uhuru Kenyatta with County Commissioners who are part of the national government’s administrative structure established by law to assist in the coordination of national government functions in the 47 counties elicited sharp reactions from not only the Council of Governors, but also the Opposition. This may be seen as the seemingly continued distrust that has in the recent past characterised the relationship between the national and county governments.

Debate on the presence of national government administrative institutions at the county level gained momentum following the appointment by the then President Mwai Kibaki of the 47 County Commissioners . The appointments by President Kibaki were done before the first elections under the new Constitution. This was against the provisions of the Constitution, which required the reorganisation and restructuring of the provincial administration to be in harmony with and respect the structure of decentralised government within five years after the promulgation of the Constitution. The timing of the appointments was viewed as a move by the Presidency and the national government to undermine county governments even before they came into being.

The coordination of central government policies and development programmes at the local level under the old order was the mandate of the then Provincial Administration which was a department within the Office of the President. Representatives of the Executive at the regional levels under the Provincial Administration system exercised upward accountability and there was a general feeling among citizens that they all served at the pleasure of the incumbent President and as such did not exist to serve the interests of the citizens.

The mandate of the Provincial Administration included supervising other central government ministries in the provinces and at the district levels, coordinating the implementation of the ministry’s programmes and policies. With the new Constitution they will, however, execute duties allocated under by the Fourth Schedule.

The Fourth Schedule outlines the functions of both the national and county governments. The Transition Authority has been engaging in the review and reassigning of functions, powers and competencies between the national and county governments. There are some functions that are to be performed concurrently by both the national and county governments.

Questions were, however, bound to arise concerning the structure of relations between the two levels of government. First are questions over which level of government will have overall responsibility for what functions. The other area of conflict is who should be responsible for local programmes being funded by the central government.

County governments have structures established by law that enable the smooth running of county departments and also deliver on their mandate.

It may, however, not be easy for Governors to effectively coordinate delegated national government functions such as security and other inter-ministerial duties.

This may particularly prove difficult without a well-coordinated structure such as the then provincial administration and now the structure as headed by the County Commissioners .

A structure like the then provincial administration structure with the inter-ministerial liaison experience can, therefore, be very helpful in supervising and coordinating the delegation of service provision functions to the county government as a way of countering resistance from the central government bureaucrats.

The structure under the County Commissioner is important for the national government for the purposes of implementation and enforcement of national government policies that cut across county boundaries, without compromising the institutional integrity of the County Government under the leadership of the Governor.
