
Mon, May 19, 2014, 09:39 pm SL Time, ColomboPage News Desk, Sri Lanka.

May 19, Colombo: A coalition partner of Sri Lankan government today warned that it will quit the coalition if the government fails to accept the proposals put forward by the party for constitutional reforms.

Sri Lankan Minister of Construction, Engineering and Common Amenities and the leader of coalition party National Freedom Front (NFF), Wimal Weerawansa reiterated today that his party would quit the ruling coalition unless the President Mahinda Rajapaksa responds positively to the party's proposals for reforms.

The National Freedom Front adopted the proposals consisting of 12 points for reforms at its annual convention earlier this month and the Minister had asked for an opportunity to hand over the proposals to the President.

Speaking to media after presenting the proposals to the Cardinal Dr. Malcolm Ranjith today, Weerawansa said that his party is seeking a meeting with the President to present the 12-point proposal to the President.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa met the Minister last week at a ceremony of a private company. However, they have not discussed the proposals at the event.

The NFF sources say that the President has still not granted an opportunity for them to hand over the proposals.

The Minister said the party is seeking a meeting with the President to discuss the proposals and if the outcome is not positive, the party will follow its own course.

The party abstained from voting for the Strategic Development Project Act recently alleging the projects include casino.

The NFF along with another coalition party, Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU), have been on the fence on their support to the government on the no-confidence motion brought by the main opposition United National Party (UNP) against the government.

The two coalition partners said they will announce their stand on the motion tomorrow.

The no confidence motion brought against the government by UNP is scheduled to be debated in parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday.

UNP Media Spokesman MP Gayantha Karunatilaka has invited both parties to support the no confidence motion and prove their patriotism.
