
Share This Story!

More than two weeks since the flood in North Florida and Rubio is missing in action.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Some may argue Marco Rubio should be in Washington when the Senate is in session. The Pensacola News Journal thinks otherwise.

We wonder if Rubio has forgotten the Panhandle in our time of need.

While Daniel Cole, of Pensacola, was recovering from three feet of water that inundated his home on April 30, Sen. Marco Rubio was high and dry at a news conference in Washington to discuss the Ukraine crisis.

A week later, while Marines were offering help to flood victims in Gulf Breeze, Rubio and Sen. Jim Risch, an Idaho Republican, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry expressing their concern about U.S. personnel in Tripoli.

Later that day, his office issued a news release saying Rubio, "a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, will discuss the ongoing political crisis in Venezuela and the Maduro regime's violent repression of peaceful demonstrations during the hearing entitled, 'Assessing Venezuela's Political Crisis: Human Rights Violations and Beyond.'"

It has been more than two weeks since the devastating flood in North Florida and Rubio is missing in action.

We've been visited twice by Gov. Rick Scott, including the first day of flooding where he pledged to send in the Florida National Guard and equipment. That day, Sen. Bill Nelson took to the Senate floor to ask President Obama for federal aid. He earlier had written to the president with the same request. Congressman Jeff Miller, R-Chumuckla, also asked the president for help.

We wonder if Rubio has forgotten the Panhandle in its time of need as he positions himself as a heavyweight on foreign policy and international relations.

Frankly, with the area battered by as much as two feet of rain, an explosion in the Escambia County Jail, and roads washed away, forgive us if we're upset Rubio has ignored the area. Surely, he's seen reports.

"Just briefly, a moment of personal privilege. I just want to extend our thoughts and prayers for those in Northwest Florida, particularly in Pensacola, overnight had a massive amount of flooding, some loss of life," said Rubio. "We've been in contact with the governor's office, also reached out with Sen. Nelson. We're watching very closely what's happening there. Our thoughts and our prayers are with them."

At least he was thinking of us.

We also want to note that Nelson has not visited the area to see the destruction. However, he moved quickly to let his fellow senators and the president know about our disaster.

Rubio may have presidential aspirations. We may even endorse him if and when he chooses to make a run at the presidency. However, until he moves into 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., he should represent all of Florida, especially during a disaster.
