
Canada’s aboriginal affairs ministers are asking the country’s premiers to look at compensation, counselling and repatriation for thousands of aboriginal children adopted into white families during the so-called Sixties Scoop.

The ministers met recently in Winnipeg and recommended that premiers set up a group to study the issue. The premiers are to meet in August in Prince Edward Island.

Manitoba Aboriginal Affairs Minister Eric Robinson said it’s time for a national discussion about the thousands of aboriginal children who were taken from their communities and raised in non-native households from the 1960s to the 1980s.

Adoptees from the Sixties Scoop have said their time for reconciliation has come and they want an apology from the federal government.

Mr. Robinson, himself a residential school survivor, said what they experienced was just as traumatic.

“In my case, at least I had other Indian boys and other Indian kids my age to be around,” Mr. Robinson said. “In the case of these kids who were adopted out, they had nobody. They were a brown face among a mass of white faces either in the United States or in foreign lands.

For Coleen Rajotte, a premiers working group would be a start. The filmmaker was taken from her Cree community in Saskatchewan when she was three months old and raised by a Manitoba family.

She was lucky to be placed with a loving family, she said, but many ended up in abusive homes and treated like household help.

“Lives have been scarred forever,” Ms. Rajotte said.

If the premiers form a study group, Ms. Rajotte hopes it will work toward more counselling – and possibly compensation – for adoptees.

And, in the long term, Canadians need to be properly educated about “this dark part of our history,” she said.

PEI Premier Robert Ghiz, who will chair the August meeting, is also his province’s Aboriginal Affairs Minister. He wasn’t available for an interview.

“We’re really not in a position to speak to this,” spokesman Guy Gallant said in an e-mail.
