
KUWAIT: Ahmadi detectives arrested a man who admitted stealing 11 cars and selling their parts. The arrest happened following investigations in multiple auto thefts reported in Mangaf and Abu Halifa recently. Police raided the bedoon man’s house and discovered that he had transformed a part of it into a workshop where stolen cars were dismantled and sold to garages in Mina Abdullah. The man explained during investigations that he targeted models dated before the year 2000 because these are easy to steal.

Home robbery A search is on for a thief who broke into a house in Riqqa and stole jewelry and cash after he handcuffed a domestic worker and two children who were left alone there. The homeowner reported the case at the area’s police station, and said that the suspect stole gold, KD 500 and 4,000 Saudi riyals, estimating the total value of the stolen items at KD 10,000. The Kuwaiti man had returned home from a wedding to find out that his housemaid and two sons were handcuffed, before discovering the theft. The thief was wearing a mask and spoke in a Kuwaiti dialect, according to the maid.

A man reported his daughter was kidnapped, hours after he told officers at Salmiya police station that the girl went missing. The Asian man told officers the first time that his 11-year-old daughter did not return home after she went to a grocery shop near their building in Salmiya. He then returned to the police station later to indicate that his daughter had been abducted, and gave information of a man who he said returned the girl back home. He pressed kidnap charges against his compatriot and an arrest warrant was issued.

A man faces multiple charges after he beat his mother and stole her money at their house in Rabiya. Operations to arrest the man went underway after his mother, a Kuwaiti woman in her fifties, told local police that her son stole KD 400 from her after physically assaulting her. The 25-year-old was arrested in the house after police obtained a warrant to raid it. Police suspect that the man was in an inebriated state at the time of arrest. He was taken to the authorities to face charges after he admitted to his actions.

This post has already been read 1735 times!
