
The move comes in the wake of Bangalore Mirror's expose on how senior jail officials allegedly colluded with a person arrested on charges of cheating and signed an MoU granting him rights over the bakery products manufacturing and sales outlet at the Parappana Agrahara central prison. The MoU is reportedly based on private-public partnership model.

"I have told additional chief secretary (home) S K Pattanayak to verify the MoU process that was followed to award the contract under PPP model to Agasthya," George told Bangalore Mirror. "The report is expected in two days time. Strict action will be initiated against officials if they are found to have flouted rules while dealing with accused or prisoners."

Monday's BM report titled 'Undertrial-prison authorities nexus takes the cake' laid threadbare how DIGP (Central Prison) M C Vishwanathaiah had signed the MoU with A R Ashok Kumar Adiga of Agasthya Pastries and Beverages Private Limited with the tacit approval of Additional Director General of Prisons K V Gagandeep's office. Ashok Adiga (who has nothing to do with the popular food chain in the city) had been put behind bars and was released on bail.

Meanwhile, the issue took a political turn with members of the BJP blaming it on government's apathy. A senior BJP leader said, "It is disgusting that the Congress government is tolerating officials who are awarding contracts to persons facing criminal charges. Despite a drubbing at the national level, the Congress ministers here continue to turn a blind eye towards corruption."

Referring to the bakery deal, former law minister S Suresh Kumar said the crumbling jail system was also discussed in the legislative assembly's petition committee recently. "The meeting was attended by the home secretary too and it was pointed out that the Parapanna Agrahara prison, instead of becoming a centre for reforms, is becoming a transit centre for many. In fact, contraband that cannot be procured outside can be accessed inside the jail."

He said the jail authorities should have invited tenders instead of signing an MOU with an undertrial. "There are many serious offenders in prison," Kumar said. "It is high time that the state government makes it a priority to handle such situations by taking extra care. Bangalore Mirror has brought the issue to light. I think the government must look deep into the issue and put a full stop for all these things otherwise Bangalore jail will become notorious like other jails in India. BJP will take up the issue and will protest against it."

The JDS too took exception to the official-undertrial nexus. Senior JDS leader M C Nanaiah said, "It is against the law for prison officials to have any kind of relationship with prisoners, but it is ironical that here they have signed an MoU. We will look into the matter and it will be taken up during the legislative council session."
