
A mother collapsed after attempting to carry her baby out of their burning Gatineau home early Saturday morning. She handed the baby to firefighters who met her on the main floor of the house and immediately collapsed, said Gatineau platoon Chief Guy Dagenais.

Dagenais said the baby was covered in black soot and barely breathing, but his condition improved once he was outside. The baby was later transferred to the Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario and treated for carbon monoxide poisoning. The mother was rushed to hospital suffering from severe burns to her back and smoke inhalation. Both mother and baby are now in stable condition, said Dagenais.

The woman’s partner had earlier rescued their young son from the home, but when he tried to get upstairs to reach the mother and baby, the smoke and heat pushed him back, said Dagenais. He was later treated for burns to his hand and released from hospital, as was the child and a second man who escaped from the house.

Crews got the call at around 3 a.m. Gatineau fire service says the blaze caused $250,000 in damage and that the cause was still under investigation.

Dagenais said it was likely caused by faulty wiring and started in an upstairs hallway near the bedrooms. He added that the home’s smoke alarm was not working.

He said the fire should serve as a warning to people to make sure their smoke detectors are working properly and that batteries are regularly changed, ideally twice a year when clocks move forward and back.

“People forget it is the only thing that will buy you enough time to get out of the house.” House fires, he said, can deteriorate by the second.

When firefighters arrived at the semi-detached home at 306 Buckingham Ave., they say, they were met by three people who had escaped the burning structure, the father, his son and his brother. The mother and baby were still inside. Two firefighters entered the burning building to make the rescue.

In total, 27 firefighters and 11 trucks were on scene for two hours dousing the flames, which started in the hallway on the second floor of the home and climbed to the roof.

We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.
