
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

could be headed for a double-whammy of a constitutional crisis and sinking state government revenue, House of Delegates Republicans said after briefings from the state's top finance official and two of the legislature's in-house staff lawyers.

, he said.

"This now is getting into something serious," Jones said.

versions of budget, without making cuts in payments to local governments, colleges or other programs, he said.

wants to, and House Republicans are adamantly opposed.

McAuliffe said he will do whatever is required to keep the state government from shutting down, but legislators say that violates state Constitution limits on his power.

"This is not a we versus they, this is about legislative prerogative," Jones said.

said.

"In the meantime, he hopes House Republicans will stop posturing about a potential shutdown and offer a plan to avoid one," Coy added.

The committee's staff lawyers said federal funds for a variety of welfare programs would probably still flow even if a court were to hold that Gov.

has no power under the state Constitution to spend money if the legislature doesn't pass a law -- the budget -- appropriating money.

The state constitution also says the governor has to make payments on state bonds, and to pay salaries of most elected officials.

during the 2006 budget crisis that he could authorize other spending,

passed a budget that year with just a few days to spare.

kept the state government open after the 2004 legislature failed to enact a budget.

will agree to their budget, which does not include using Affordable Care Act funds.

will fund.

Senators supporting the expansion say it uses taxes Virginians are already paying and would ease budget strains from using state taxes to pay for indigent care at hospitals and mental health services.

At one point, Del.

so it acts on the House budget and clears the way for negotiations.

Ress can be reached by phone at 757-247-4535.
