
For the last 13 years the elderly mother of Aashiq Ali Baloch, a Pakistani inmate languishing in an Indian jail, has been waiting to see her son return home.

Aashiq’s father, Khameso Khan Baloch, died a few years ago nurturing the same hope. And now his mother, Pathani Baloch, is also advancing down her declining years.

“My last wish is to see him back home and to arrange his marriage,” says Pathani pointing to the trunk in which she has collected clothes and jewelry for her would-be daughter-in-law.

As tears roll down her cheeks, she recalls the day her son left for India. “Most of the family members were opposed to his visit due to the prevailing tension between India and Pakistan then. But Aashiq was very keen on touring that country and he compelled us to give him permission,” she tells The Express Tribune.

Aashiq was 22 years old when he went to India in 2001 on a visit visa. He travelled through the Wagah border to reach Mumbai where he stayed with his relatives, whom the family does not want to identify in view of their safety in India.

In January 2002 he was detained while touring Hyderabad Deccan, Andhra Pradesh state, and was charged with espionage.

Initially he was kept in Darjeeling prison in West Bengal while the criminal case registered against him proceeded in a Deccan court, according to his elder brother Tariq Baloch, a journalist working for a regional newspaper. The family claims that they were not even given a copy of the verdict.

“We couldn’t even provide him a defence lawyer. His case lasted for over four years till he was awarded life imprisonment in 2006,” says Tariq, regretting their inability to defend Aashiq in the court.

After pronouncement of the verdict, he added, his brother was shifted to Cherlapalli prison in Hyderabad Deccan, where he continues to serve his term. Since his arrest, the family has lost all verbal communication with Aashiq. They only infrequently exchange letters, which are first screened by the Indian security authorities.

According to a list of prisoners given by the Indian government in January this year, some 396 Pakistanis, including 257 civilians and 139 fishermen, are incarcerated in Indian jails.

“He lost prime of his youth languishing in Indian jails, far from family and joys of life. But I want him to be free now,” says his elder brother Muhammad Haroon Baloch.

The family’s hope for Aashiq’s freedom and, subsequent repatriation, hinges on the provision in the law which commutes the life term to 14 or 20 years’ imprisonment.

However, a November 2012 judgment by the bench of Justice KS Radhakrishnan and Madan B Lokur interpreted the life sentence as an imprisonment for ‘entire life’. However, they left the power for remission to the government functionaries.

Haroon maintains that his brother has completed a cumulative period of 24 years and eight months, based on the day and night count of a day, in confinement since his arrest.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 19th, 2014.

His place is in jail. When is visa was only for western part of india that is mumbai. What was he doing in Hyderabad city 3states away at eastern part of india? Did he think this is his country where everything’s works and he can get away with it? Or was he a spy on purpose? After those ten people they sent mumbai for mumbai 11 event. No need to show any leniency on people who take visa for one city than land up in other city in totally different part of india to do god knows what.

And btw what happened to all those indian prisoners that are languished in Pakistan jails? No tears for that? As expected.

Have some heart for God sake Rahul. What if he was an innocent 22 years old son who was full of life wanting to explore the country that inherits the same culture as Pakistan.

Why so ruthless buddy? You make such speculation over few incidents; we ourselves condemn such acts; have a look at Pakistan too – we are not even fighting out own war and yet losing so many civilians on daily basis. I don’t expect you understand this situation but that doesn’t mean you should bring your level of hatred to such an extent that you become blindfolded.

Anyhow coming back to the point – she is a mother and there are lots of what ifs that revolve around the story.

And frankly speaking (gesture), I think the only time we wouldn’t support India would be in cricket – apart from that we treat you all the same. The sooner we all realize this the better it is!

“Commit atrocities against defenceless visitors and poor fishermen” well show this concern and charity to jailed indian people in Pakistani jails release all to india first then lecture us.

@Usman what’s hateful and ruthless in what he is saying? Isn’t protecting country people from possible threats a prerogative specially after sponsored attacks that resulted deaths we have faced continuously yet they enjoy free reign there in your country? One bitten twice shy you know. Forgive us for being so skeptical after being burnt several times by making same mistake of “having a heart”.

By the way what about those indian mothers awaiting their sons from Pakistan? No sympathies for them? It works both side you know.

@HA your country channel showed his village in Punjab. Your own prime minister accepted it was planned there and then blamed it on non state actors there. Yet you believe in conspiracy theories fed to you by people like zaid.

Gang rapes in buses, Goa Beach unsafe for expatriate woman. What do you talk about countrymen, lets talk about countrywomen who face horror by being raped.

ET be fair and publish this.

Get a life man! On what grounds did you jump to the conclusion that his visa was only valid for Mumbai? People visiting relatives routinely get visas for one of the main cities i.e. Delhi or Mumbai alongside their intended destinations mostly in UP, Bihar, MP or Andhra.

As for Indians languishing in Pakistani jails, they should be served justice and released when terms are over.

@Sameer – your country was also born 67 years ago – so don’t forget that. Ofcourse out part of land and culture existed before and for as long as you think yours did. Go ask your foreign office on indian consulates in afghanistan – where did you get the figure of 4 from? There are 4 in and around Kabul only – consulates, facilitation centres and other such cover ups. Also, we host more afghans than you guys have ever in your history – you find them all over the country. Anyhow, we hate the TTP and people behind it – I am not blaming indian public in general but the secutiry appratus. Anyhow – with a hindu nationalist now occupying close to 300+ seats in your national assembly – lets see how Hindu fundamentalism feeds into your system now.

Polio virus was found mainly in israel, israel friend of india, raw agency of india, india active in afghanistan, ttp links with raw, simple math. Now don’t tell me why we ask you to do maths.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
