
ISLAMABAD: Federal Minister for National Food Security & Research (MNFSR) Sikandar Hayat Khan Bosan Monday said that Pakistan and Sweden possessed great potential for boosting existing bilateral trade ties between the two countries, particularly in different areas of agriculture and agricultural research.

The Federal Minister said this during a meeting with trade representatives and businessmen of Swedish Trade Delegation, after the latter led by Ambassador Jonas Hafstrom, Special Advisor to the Minister for Trade of Sweden, called on the minister here.

The two sides also agreed upon chalking out a course of action for future collaboration and cooperation in agriculture sector.

Speaking on the occasion, the minister said that Pakistan was an attractive destination for investment in the field of agriculture.

The minister invited Swedish entrepreneurs and businessmen to explore agriculture market potential for the joint ventures with Pakistani business community and expressed hope that this will open up new avenues of development for both countries.

The Federal minister also expressed gratitude to the Swedish Government for its support for GSP Plus status to Pakistan noting that this will not only increase export of Pakistani products to European Union but also generate job opportunities.

Ambassador Jonas Hafstrom, Special Advisor to the Minister for Trade of Sweden, expressed interest in enhancing economic and business ties with Pakistan in various sectors of agriculture.

Hafstrom also said that lot of scope existed between the two countries for initiating and implementing joint ventures in different fields of agriculture.

The Federal Minister assured of his ministry's full cooperation in boosting up agriculture relations between the two countries. Secretary MNFSR Seerat Asghar sought Swedish assistance in various areas of agriculture particularly cooperation in developing an efficient food production system in the country and sharing of latest agriculture technology and machinery.

Both sides emphasized upon enhancing collaborative research in multiple sectors of agriculture.

Both sides also committed to exchange mutually beneficial best practices in agriculture in order to maximize agricultural production on sustainable basis. The participants of the meeting stressed on continuing exploring possibilities of cooperation in agriculture sector to further cement business and economic ties between the two countries.

Malik Zahoor Ahmed Director General NAPHIS, Dr. Iftikhar Ahmad Chairman PARC and other high officials of MNFSR also attended the meeting.
