
RICHMOND — The state's latest tax collections are running well below what officials expected, in a May shocker that politicians on all sides of the budget impasse say should ramp up the pressure to reach an agreement.

But agreement came no closer Monday, after Secretary of Finance Ric Brown disclosed that tax collections are running about $300 million less than expected.

"Let's get a budget done," Gov Terry McAuliffe said. He said he didn't care whether the budget was based on dueling House of Delegates or the state Senate budgets.

But he said he remained committed to expanding health insurance for low income Virginians, while House of Delegates Appropriations Committee chair S. Chris Jones, R-Suffolk, said the slump in state revenue made him in firmer in his opposition to using Affordable Care Act funds from the federal government to expand coverage. McAuliffe and other advocates of expansion say the Obamacare money would ease current strains on the budget caused by using state taxes to pay for indigent care at hospitals and mental health services.

Jones, meanwhile, said the latest revenue numbers show that if a budget does emerge it will have to cut spending below what either the House or Senate proposed.

The state's revenue problem is with income tax payments made by residents whose withholdings from paychecks weren't enough to cover their tax bills.

The problem, Brown said, was that 2013 saw big payments from capital gains Virginians realized when they cashed in stocks and bonds in 2012. This month so far looks like a return to more normal tax collection patterns, but the budgets now before both the House and Senate are based on total 2013 tax collections. Brown said several big business tax payments are due in the next few weeks, however.

The revenue is slump is more bad news for a state already locked in a budget impasse and possibly heading for a constitutional crisis, said Appropriations Committee vice chairman R. Steven Landes, R-Weyers Cave, who described it as a double whammy.

He and Jones said it means the General Assembly needs to get cracking on a budget, and they say the hang up is that the state Senate won't act on the House of Delegates version. Senate Majority Leader Richard Saslaw, D-Fairfax, said the Senate would do that when the House acts on a pending Senate budget. Jones said that flouts decades of past practice, designating the House bill as the main vehicle for a budget.

Things are at a standstill because neither the House nor the Senate are budging on the biggest stumbling block: whether to accept Affordable Care Act funds, estimated at about $2 billion a year, to expand health care coverage for low income Virginians. The Senate wants to, and House Republicans are adamantly opposed.

McAuliffe said he will do whatever is required to keep the state government from shutting down if the House and Senate can't agree.

"This government is not going to shut down," McAuliffe said Monday, brushing off a briefing earlier in the day by General Assembly staff lawyers to the House Appropriations Committee that concluded his powers to spend money are tightly limited if the General Assembly does not pass a budget.

McAuliffe's view is that "the governor has broad authority to continue serving taxpayers in the event that the General Assembly fails to reach a budget compromise," spokesman Brian Coy said.

"In the meantime, he hopes House Republicans will stop posturing about a potential shutdown and offer a plan to avoid one," Coy added.

Legislators said McAuliffe's stance violates the basic principle of separation of powers between the people who write laws – them – and the one who enforces them, the governor.

"This is not a we versus they, this is about legislative prerogative," Jones said.

The General Assembly staff lawyers said the state Constitution bars disbursing money from the state Treasury if the General Assembly hasn't passed legislation appropriating the funds, with a handful of exceptions. The state, however, does have the power to keep collecting taxes even if the General Assembly does not enact a budget..

The committee's staff lawyers said federal funds for a variety of welfare programs would probably still flow, however.

Federal laws, like those requiring states to disburse federal funds for food stamps and child welfare programs, would supersede the state Constitution, the lawyers saud. Payments for Medicaid, the joint state-federal health insurance program for the poor and disabled, are also governed by federal law. The Affordable Care Act funds that House Republicans don't want to accept are intended to expand Medicaid.

The state constitution also says the governor has to make payments on state bonds, and to pay salaries of most elected officials.

But Mark Vucci, a senior staff attorney for the General Assembly, brushed off arguments floated by then-Gov Tim Kaine during the 2006 budget crisis that he could authorize other spending,
