
Here are all the updates related to the politics unfolding after the results of the 2014 elections.

7:20 pm: Capt. Amarinder Singh: During the CWC meeting, when Sonia and Rahul Gandhi offered to resign, we collectively rejected it. The president will oversee future course of action.

7:18 pm: Beni Prasad Verma: Sonia Gandhi will decide whether a reshuffle needs to be made within the party organisation.

7:09 pm: Sources: Sonia and Rahul Gandhi offered to resign from their posts in the party during CWC meeting, but this was refused.

7:08 pm: Congress leader Oscar Fernandes: There is no question of retreating at this point. This is the time to continue fighting and the party will do that under the leadership of the party president and Rahul Gandhi.

7:02 pm: Sources: No resignation by any senior leader was offered at Congress Working Committee meeting and no major changes were decided in party structure or functioning.

6:57 pm: Congress Working Committee's crucial meeting to discuss electoral debacle ends.

6:56 pm: Jitan Ram Majhi, who will be the new chief minister of Bihar, comes from the Musahar community, a Mahadalit group. He is from Gaya and is know for his low profile and for being a trusted aide of Nitish Kumar. He had contested the Lok Sabha elections from Gaya and lost.

6:54 pm: Anil Anand, JD(U) leader: Jitan Ram Manjhi is a very experienced leader. Nitish Kumar has taken the right decision to make a Mahadalit the chief minister of Bihar.

6:41 pm: Jitan Ram Majhi is to be the new chief minister of Bihar. This has been announced following Nitish Kumar and Majhi's meeting with the state governor.

6:40 pm: Nitish Kumar, accompanied by state SC/ST minister Jitan Ram Majhi, meets Bihar Governor Dr D Y Patil. Majhi is likely to be the new chief minister and is close to Nitish.

6:28 pm: Shashi Tharoor on Priyanka Gandhi: Let her decide what she wants to do and what kind of role she wants. It's premature to come to any conclusion. Am sure that when she is given any responsibility, she will not disappoint us.

6:16 pm: YSR Congress chief Jaganmohan Reddy meets BJP president Rajnath Singh. Reddy met with Narendra Modi earlier today.

5:50 pm: Bihar SC/ST Welfare Minister, Jitan Ram Majhi, is front-runner for the post of chief minister. He is considered close to Nitish Kumar.

5:49 pm: Former Intelligence Bureau chief Ajit Kumar Doval arrives at BJP president Rajnath Singh's residence.

5:42 pm: Youth Congress members raise slogans outside Congress headquarters in Delhi in support of Rahul Gandhi.

5:35 pm: Renuka Chowdhury: Everyone in the Congress is responsible for the party's poor performance. Decisions taken at every level within the party affect election results.

5:30 pm: CWC meeting in progress. Sources: A K Antony is one of the names mentioned as likely Congress nominee for Leader of Opposition.

5:28 pm: CWC meeting: Among the challenges they will need to discuss is upcoming elections in Delhi, Maharashtra and other states.

5:27 pm: Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal says he will not take any ministry in the Narendra Modi government.

5:24 pm: CWC meeting on. Congress sources: Even if Rahul Gandhi offers to resign taking responsibility for the party's electoral debacle, CWC is unlikely to accept it.

4:41 pm: Nitish Kumar: Caste politics was used extensively during the Lok Sabha elections, which was a major factor behind JD(U)'s bad performance.

4:32 pm: Nitish Kumar: Decision to quit as chief minister was not an emotional one, JD(U) still enjoys a majority in the Assembly, and Congress is supporting us. We will form a government and continue the good work.

4:31 pm: Nitish Kumar: Our responsibility has now increased. For the best interests of the inclusive democracy that we believe in, we need to provide a strong and stable government for the people. We do not have much time and elections are coming, we need to prepare for challenges in future.

4:27 pm: Congress Working Committee meeting begins, Manmohan Singh also arrives for the meeting along with senior Congress leaders.

4:02 pm: Election fallout: Repercussions in Uttarakhand as Chief Minister Harish Rawat sacks state Tourism Minister Amrita Rawat. She is the wife of Satpal Maharaj, who defected to the BJP just before the polls.

3:24 pm: V N Singh, JD(U): The new state chief minister will be decided by tomorrow. We have left it to Nitish Kumar to take a decision on this.

3:20 pm: V N Singh, JD(U): We opposed Narendra Modi earlier, and will continue to do so. We are going to meet the Governor in the evening and inform him of the party's deliberations.

3:16 pm: V N Singh, JD(U): The legislative party has decided that the 2015 elections will be fought under Nitish Kumar's leadership and based on the people's verdict, he will form government. He will continue to work as liaison between party and government till then.

3:14 pm: V N Singh: It is necessary to take tough decisions in politics and Nitish Kumar explained his reasons to resign on moral grounds. Bihar is the land of Jayaprakash Narayan and Lohia, so the party has applauded Nitish Kumar's principled stand on the matter.

3:12 pm: JD(U) president V N Singh: Other parties including the BJP are passing unnecessary comments on Nitish Kumar's exemplary principled decision to resign. He's only left the CM's post; we still have majority in the Assembly. We've taken a unanimous decision to let Nitish decide on the next CM.

3:07 pm: YSR Congress leader Jaganmohan Reddy meets Narendra Modi. Jagan had earlier today expressed support for Modi and interest in working with the NDA government.

2:58 pm: JD(U) legislative party authorises Nitish Kumar to decide on the new Chief Minister of Bihar, following his resignation from the post.

2:55 pm: Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council (PMEAC) chairman C Rangarajan to former PM Dr Manmohan Singh.

2:53 pm: Samajwadi Party meeting in Lucknow over. Ateek Ahmed, party leader: In the meeting neta ji (Mulayam Singh) said that such kind of majority for any party is not a good sign.

2:43 pm: Sources: Karia Munda likely to be given Lok Sabha Speaker's post; Advani could be asked to remain as a guiding light for BJP. Defence Ministry could be given to Murli Manohar Joshi.

2:42 pm: Sources: Home Ministry remains a crucial portfolio for Modi; if Rajnath is given Home then internal security will be taken out of MHA and kept with PMO. Sushma Swaraj being asked to look at HRD; she remains keen on one of the top four ministries. Arun Jaitley may be inducted as External Affairs minister.

2:39 pm: Sources: Hectic meetings between Modi and senior BJP, RSS leaders. Rajnath Singh may just remain party president for some more time and not join Cabinet immediately. Modi keen to bring in Arun Shourie as finance minister. Top four ministers will also join in oath taking on May 24.

2:18 pm: Trinamool Congress leader Shikha Mitra quits party, joins Congress.

2:02 pm: Abdul Basit, Pakistan High Commissioner: Nawaz Sherif called Modi on Friday to congratulate him and expressed his hope that BJP's decisive victory would augur well for Indo-Pak relationship. Sharif also invited Modi to visit Pakistan.

2:01 pm: Union Home Secretary meeting Modi at 4 pm today. Meeting to discuss priority areas vis-a-vis MHA. Home Secy Anil Goswami: immediate issues before MHA are creation of Telangana and Delhi  elections. Terrorism, Naxal problem, issues in Kashmir and Northeast are other priority areas.

1:51 pm: Ram Vilas Paswan: We congratulated Rajnath Singh and Narendra Modi for this historical win. There was no discussion on Cabinet formation. Nitish Kumar‘s resignation is just drama. There will be re-election in November in Bihar.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
