
The new Rushmore Region alliance has targeted six industries to expand or relocate in South Dakota. Research showed these industries have the best prospects for expanding the Black Hills economy and lifting average wages in the region.

A survey of experts who help businesses decide where to expand or relocate showed that only about 1 in 10 even considered South Dakota as an option.

Now, an effort is underway to change that.

"We think it's more attractive to package ourselves as a region that gets along, that likes each other, that works together, that will share things with each other," said Ben Snow, president of the Rapid City Economic Development Partnership. "We will share in the work and we will share in the prosperity and the harvest that comes from our work."

The announcement of the new marketing campaign was made last week at the Black Hills Business Development Center in Rapid City. With the slogan, "Face-to-Face with Freedom: conduct business with the freedoms our Founding Fathers intended," on a backdrop of Mount Rushmore. The campaign promotes the pro-business, anti-regulation climate of the area.

The slogan goes on to promise: "Less regulation, less red tape, less taxes, less trouble."

And yet, none of those advantages matter if people don't know they exist, said Bryan Walker, executive director of the Spearfish Economic Development Corporation, which is part of the new alliance.

Before launching the initiative, a survey of corporate real estate agents and industrial site selectors nationwide was conducted. It turned out just 12 percent of the clients even considered South Dakota viable, Walker said.

"What we found out very early was that many of them were not very knowledgeable about the Black Hills, they did not know what business advantages exist in South Dakota and never considered it as an option," Walker said.

However, whenever Mount Rushmore was mentioned, eyes would light up since it was a landmark they could recognize, he said. That name recognition is why Mount Rushmore is featured prominently in all of the marketing materials and why they are calling it the Rushmore Region instead of the Black Hills.

In Walker's experience, once a business owner or site locator came to the region and saw the business climate and natural beauty of the area, it wasn't too hard to make a deal.

"Our problem has never been closing a sale," Walker said. "Once people come here, talk to area business owners, see the sights, and experience the area, they become excited. We just need to get them here."

In the past, individual towns in the six counties in the alliance — Pennington, Butte, Custer, Lawrence, Meade and Fall River — would try to market themselves individually. But that wasn't effective due to limited resources.

With such poor name recognition, it's not hard to imagine the challenges a small town in the Black Hills would have attracting new businesses.

Custer Mayor Gary Lipp said his city has a lot of unique opportunities for certain businesses, but couldn't afford to reach out to them.

By being part of a larger entity, with more resources, Custer and other smaller cities will gain access to more prospects, he said.

From $300,000 to $400,000 is expected to be spent during the next few years after all participating communities and regional economic development organizations will chip in.

The same day the alliance was announced, the group launched the website www.rushmoreregion.com. The site outlines the state's business friendly policies, shares success stories of businesses in the region, and profiles each of the 21 towns that fly the Rushmore Region banner.

Bar-Sto Precision Machine, a custom gunsmithing and pistol barrel manufacturer, is a perfect example.

Four years ago, owner Irving Stone moved his business from Twentynine Palms, Calif. to Sturgis, and he couldn't be happier with his decision, Stone has said.

He said operating costs are about 30 percent less in South Dakota than in California, mostly due to favorable tax laws, he said.

If the Rushmore Region Alliance works as planned, that lack of awareness won't be the problem it once was.

Other states may have larger markets, but doing business there can come with a hefty price. Just ask Duff Kruse, who has experienced the difference between doing business in South Dakota versus a state with a major metropolitan area and heavy government oversight.

Kruse is the president of the Rapid City-based Adams ISD, an industrial sales company that manufactures pressure vessels used in the oil boom in North Dakota and Wyoming. He graduated from the South Dakota School of Mines & Technology and spent much of his career working for various corporations in Denver.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Well photo could be enhanced but that wouldn't be right!

I noticed in the photo all the wonderful "green" trees.

Too bad something couldn't be done about that.

Username & Password Required!
