
Share This Story!

Wagon train marking centennial brought state together; another is planned for 125th.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Give up? The answer is the South Dakota Centennial Wagon Train that traveled the back roads of South Dakota, starting in Elk Point on May 10 and ending at the State Fair in Huron on Aug. 29, 1989.

As I was traveling over some county and state roads on a beautiful Saturday afternoon recently (you remember, that day we had spring!), I was reminded of the 112 days I spent doing the “hardest job I’ve every loved” in the summer of 1989.

Having spent three years in Boston, I was ready to return to South Dakota, when a phone call came, inviting me to take the job of managing the historic wagon train. And what an adventure it turned out to be.

If you have lived in South Dakota more than 25 years, you probably participated in the train, either riding in a wagon for a day or visiting one of the many celebrations that took place in every town east of the Missouri River, with additional smaller trains going as far southwest as Pine Ridge and as far northwest as Lemmon.

The route was planned months in advance to stop at every county seat plus all the towns in between — a total of 171 communities.

My job included running the manager’s office wagon from the only nonhorse-drawn wagon, selling 31,954 buttons throughout the summer that allowed children and adults to ride a wagon for the day, lining up the many lunch stops, putting out a daily one-page newspaper listing facts about each town, and evening menus and activities, plus tons of other duties. I was much younger then!

There were 40 wagons that went the entire way, 336 wagons that joined from time to time and many horseback riders following the train. All states but four were represented, and people from 15 foreign countries participated. The youngest passenger was 1 week old and the oldest was 100, and on at least 12 occasions, there were four generations in a wagon.

Several weddings happened along the way, and one birth — a mare delivered a colt after pulling a wagon all day. The train was a traveling town, complete with a school and teachers, a post office, a store and other unique wagons filled with delightful characters who kept us all entertained.

It was a summer filled with excitement and enough humorous stories to fill a large book, and it was the summer I fell in love with South Dakota. Traveling from 18 to 24 miles a day, with blue sky all around and unbelievable sunsets every night, I finally realized why so many people love the Plains. Having grown up in the mountains of Wyoming, it took me awhile to appreciate the beauty of a land where you can see forever.

The only sadness we experienced was passing the many deserted farmhouses along the way, wishing their walls could tell the stories of the families who had once lived in their rooms.

It was a summer of lasting friendships on the train, an inspiring sight for spectators along the route and a tribute to South Dakota’s 100th year of statehood.

This year is the 125-year celebration, and I understand there will be a 17-day wagon train in September, from Yankton to Pierre.

If you get a chance to see it or ride for a day, it would be a great way to celebrate South Dakota’s 125th anniversary.
