
A year after Dallas firefighter Stanley Wilson died in the collapse of a burning building, his wife Jenny and sons Noah (left), 17, and Luke, 15, are still waiting for Dallas Fire-Rescue to issue its official line of duty death report.

Jenny Wilson didn’t know how to handle being a single mother.

She didn’t know how to take care of the bills. She didn’t know when she needed her oil changed. She had to learn dozens of other little things that her Dallas firefighter husband, Stanley Wilson, took care of while they both worked and raised their two teenage boys.

Now, almost a year to the day after her partner of more than 20 years died battling a six-alarm apartment fire on May 20, 2013, Jenny Wilson is still adjusting to life without him.

Wilson and her sons are still waiting for answers about why Stanley Wilson died. Dallas Fire-Rescue has yet to release a report on what led to the firefighter’s death despite public allegations that it was preventable, and that a commander’s error in judgment was to blame.

“It’s concerning — almost incomprehensible that it’s not out yet,” Jenny Wilson said of the report.

Stanley Wilson’s longtime friend Jim Crump, a retired Dallas firefighter, said he believes the department is trying to cover up or delay the truth about what happened. He has said that a deputy chief ordered Wilson back into the burning building well beyond when it was safe to do so.

City Council members contacted by The Dallas Morning News declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment about the investigation.

Dallas Fire-Rescue Lt. Joel Lavender denies that the report has been delayed in any way. He said the department’s investigative committee — which has more than a half-dozen members — is still working on the report. Those reports typically take eight months to a year to complete, he said.

Lavender also noted that federal and state investigations into the fire have not yet been completed either. The state fire marshal’s office released its report on the 12 firefighter line-of-duty deaths from the West fertilizer plant explosion Friday, 13 months after that event.

But unlike the other agencies, Dallas Fire-Rescue controls the schedules of the people who were there that night and doesn’t have nearly as many line-of-duty death reports to handle.

Today the scene of Wilson’s death, the Hearthwood North Condominiums in the 12300 block of Abrams Road, is deserted, for sale and sealed off behind a chain-link fence. It stands in stark contrast to a year ago Tuesday, when the far northeast Dallas complex was engulfed in flames, with more than 150 firefighters battling the blaze.

Gusty winds helped the fire eat up more and more of the complex, which had been plagued by complaints about possible code violations. By 5:22 a.m., the fire moved to six alarms.

The department began using ladder pipes, which blast water from a crane down onto the building below, Crump said.

For reasons the department hasn’t explained, Wilson and other firefighters went back inside the building. He radioed that he was trapped and lost in the building at about 5:30 a.m. Then his colleagues lost contact with him.

Crump said there is no way Wilson or anyone else would have gone back inside — especially during a fire of that magnitude — without an order from a commander to search the building for another person. And he said it’s unconscionable for a commander to order someone to do so while the ladder pipes were still shooting water streams that any firefighter knows could cause the building to collapse.

“That's exactly like sending a Marine company out on the battlefield and telling them to check coordinates that your artillery is already pounding — without turning off the artillery,” Crump said.

Wilson was found more than three hours later. He was crushed by the building.

Jenny Wilson was awakened by a call that morning that she and her sons needed to get up and that a chief was outside her home. The chief told her Stan had been in an accident, and they needed to go to Parkland Memorial Hospital.

“At that point, my brain is saying, ‘OK, he is hurt, but he is going to be OK,’” Wilson said.

She said she worried earlier in her husband’s career that something could happen to him. But after every shift, he had come home. She had long stopped worrying. But then, at the hospital, they got the news he was dead. He was 51.

“That’s when our life changed,” she said.

Kathy Kirby, who lives in a housing complex next to Hearthwood, remembers stepping outside her home that morning and seeing a large plume of smoke from a few blocks down. She was there when the search for Wilson started.

Kirby said she is disappointed that the public, and especially Wilson’s family, still doesn’t know the circumstances that led to his death.

Bonnie Dupre’, who lives in a house nearby, said she understands it might be hard to get a definitive answer.

Jenny Wilson said May has been an especially tough month for her and her family. She said she feels the loss of her husband, whom she described as funny, family-oriented and committed to helping others.

Though she is troubled by the lack of a final report, she said she doesn’t know if she’ll ever have closure no matter what it says when it comes out.

“I won’t understand the how and the why until I die,” she said.

Still, the report could tie up some loose ends. While she says she is financially stable, she has been told she can’t claim some benefits until after the report is released. The benefits could pay for her son’s college. He is finishing his junior year. If he had been just a year older, she might be in a bind, she said.

As the waiting continues, Crump says he believes fire officials are trying to protect the commander he believes is responsible. And they are silencing others who want to speak out, he said.

But Lavender said the current probe is neither criminal nor an internal affairs investigation. He said the line-of-duty report from Dallas Fire-Rescue investigators will deal only in facts, not in blame.

Jenny Wilson knows one other firefighter who would have joined Crump in his pleas for answers — Stanley Wilson.

“If Stan were alive and this had happened to someone else, he would be on the forefront of the battle,” she said. “He wouldn’t have been foolish about it and gotten himself fired. But he would be pushing every button possible.

Staff writer Tasha Tsiaperas contributed to this report.

To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .
