
The Supervising Minister of Education, Nyesom Wike has linked the Borno State Government with the abduction of the over 200 School girls in Cbibok.

Wike said the Governor of the state should be held responsible.

The Minister made the accusation when he received some chiefs from Ogu-Bolo local Government area, the Ogu Divisional council of Chiefs, in Port Harcourt.

He said the Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima turned down a request to shelve the examination following a request from the West African Examination Council, WAEC that there was insecurity in the area.

According to him, “WAEC wrote to me to inform me that we have a security problem in that particular school and therefore they wouldn’t want exam to take place in that school.

“I wrote a letter to the Governor to say that this is what we have observed, so please there should no be exam in that school, move them to the city and get an alternative place because of the security reports we have.

“The Governor never reverted to me or wrote to me to say we are doing this or we are doing that. We wrote a letter a month to the time, not that we just wrote it within two days”, Wike said.

The Minister explained that his Ministry started taken cognizance of the security of school Children since the last incident in Federal Government College, Yobe.

He also said the Federal Government could not shutdown the school because it is a state school.

“The school is owned by the Borno State Government. They are aware that they have attacked federal government colleges before in Yobe and Borno states and what we did was to move the students.

“When we even moved the students, people from that area complained that we should re-open the schools and we said we would not re-poen the schools because of security threats”, he further stated.

Wike also assured that the current insecurity in Nigeria would soon fizzle out, adding that it was a temporary challenge.

“People play politics with everything. It’s so unfortunate that this thing happened. We are talking about girls, our daughters. So let me tell you, what is happening is a temporary thing. It is a thing that by the grace if God Mr. President will get through. It is a temporary set-back. He is working very hard”, he said.
