
The federal government has said that it will live up to its pledge to improve on-grid power supply to Nigerians before the end of the first quarter of 2014.

The government had shortly after privatising successor generation and distribution companies created from the unbundling of defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN), set a June deadline for new investors to improve supply of generated electricity across Nigeria.

Speaking on the possibility or otherwise of meeting government’s electricity supply deadline come June ending,  Minister of Power, Prof. Chinedu Nebo stated recently in Abuja that the stakeholders in the power were determined to deliver on the presidential directive.

Nebo to this end stated at a meeting with operators in Nigeria’s Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) that such plans to meet up with June deadline was designed to ensure that no eligible electricity consumer in Nigeria is left in darkness by the expiration of the deadline.

At the meeting held at the headquarters of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) in Abuja, Nebo tasked NERC as the standard bearer in the new electricity regime to provide the lead in revamping Nigeria’s rural electrification policy framework to allow private sector player to participate in providing off-grid electricity to far-flung rural communities in the country.

While speaking on measure that have been taken to meet up with the June deadline, the minister said on gas-to-power that: “The June deadline is by the corner, Mr. President’s word is a bond, we must generate more power, we are prepared to assist all our agencies in making sure that the ball keeps rolling. We can’t afford to fail in our duties.

Nebo further assured that so much work has been put in to make gas available to power plants in the country, adding that in a few weeks time, the major pipelines will be able to make enough gas available for use by our plants.

Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Power, Mohammed Wakil has asked host communities of gas pipelines to collectively provide security for gas pipelines passing through their communities.

Wakil told a steering committee meeting on the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS) that the government will on its part deliver the proposed 14 to 20 megawatts (MW) gas-fired power plant promised to the area while it expects the communities to live out their own part of the bargain.

While enticing the communities with planned project, the minister explained that the ministry will diligently perform its over-sight function in making sure that the project enjoys adequate budgetary provision and political will and that  the government will leave no stone un-turned in ensuring speedy completion of the project.

He however reminded that any infraction in the agreement with the government to secure the pipelines will equally affect the project considering that gas to fire the plant will come from the same source and pipeline.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
