
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 9:18 p.m.

On this day in 1780, the sky over much of New England and parts of Canada turned dark as night as early as 10 a.m., confusing animals, scaring people and requiring candlelight.

The event, called New England's Dark Day, lasted into nighttime. It may have been caused by a mixture of clouds, heavy fog and forest-fire smoke.

In 2008, researchers from the University of Missouri reported that study of tree rings from the Algonquin Highlands in southern Ontario showed that the trees had been damaged by fire in 1780.

Abraham Davenport, meeting in the Connecticut Legislature, rebuked calls to adjourn from those who believed the Day of Judgment had come.

Davenport said: "I am against adjournment. The Day of Judgment is either approaching or it is not. If it is not, there is no cause for an adjournment. If it is, I choose to be found doing my duty. I wish therefore that candles may be brought."

"Gigs and Garlands" will endeavor to shed some light.

GIG: To the city of Lakeland for making City Commission agenda minutes and addenda hard to read for many personal computer users. A garland overall, however, for Lakeland's expansive websites, and cable- and Internet-television networks.

People want to read the information. However, for those using Microsoft Windows-based PCs, don't expect to reach the documents while using the popular Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox web browsers. Only the standard Microsoft Internet Explorer browser can access the details. These days, that makes a difference: Surveys generally report that about 4 out of 10 PC users access the Web through Chrome, and about 2 out of 10 use Internet Explorer or use Firefox -- with the rest scattered across smaller brands.

The Ledger's Ryan E. Little has posted on his "Lakeland Lowdown" blog a translated version of this morning's Lakeland City Commission meeting agenda, accessible by nearly all web browsers: www.lakelandlowdown.blogs.theledger.com.

Apple Macintosh computers' Safari browser is also unable to open detail links on the city's website. What laptop computer is Lakeland Director of Communications Kevin Cook commonly seen carrying around City Hall? An Apple MacBook.

GARLAND: To school volunteers honored in the 38th annual Outstanding School Volunteer of the Year Awards Program in Winter Haven on Thursday.

Nearly 100 volunteers, and nominating principals and coordinators, attended the ceremony at Nora Mayo Hall, reported The Ledger's Greg Parlier in an article Friday.

Stephen Abney was honored as outstanding senior volunteer at a secondary school: East Area Adult School, Auburndale.

Cheyenne Prentice, 17, was honored as outstanding youth volunteer at an elementary school: Wahneta Elementary.

Also honored were Jim Virgilio, Lincoln Avenue Academy; Susan Lynch, Southwest Middle; and Kayleigh Mitchell, Padgett Elementary, all in Lakeland.

GARLAND: To Denver Governor, 19, who attended public schools in Polk County from elementary through joint receipt of her high school and associate's degree at Polk State Lakeland Collegiate.

Now a student a Florida State University, Governor is traveling to Ghana with the student-led Global Peace Exchange, reported Ledger correspondent Anita Todd in an article Sunday.

Governor expects to help build a home for trafficked children, and work on dialect preservation, a documentary and an art exchange.

GARLAND: To Lou Baltz and the All American Gym in downtown Lakeland, which he founded.

Today is the gym's 35th anniversary.

It is also a day on which Baltz and the gym are scheduled to receive a proclamation from the Lakeland City Commission, reported The Ledger's John Ceballos in an article Sunday. In the city, the day will be named for them.

All American is thought to have been the first co-ed gym in Lakeland.

Baltz, 62, is known for hosting bodybuilding and powerlifting contests.

He plans to retire next month and move with his family to North Carolina. The gym will continue to operate.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
