
TALLAHASSEE — Florida’s solicitor general Monday asked the Florida Supreme Court to dismiss a case seeking to invalidate politicians’ use of “blind trusts” rather than fully disclosing their assets and income.

The legal action, filed by the top aide to the late Democratic Gov. Reubin Askew, has been criticized as targeting one prominent candidate: Republican Gov. Rick Scott, running for re-election in November and the only official who uses a blind trust.

Blind trusts shield those receiving income from them against knowing where the money is coming from, chiefly to avoid any conflicts of interest.

Minutes before a noon deadline, Solicitor General Allen Winsor filed his 34-page response to an emergency complaint filed last week by Jim Apthorp, Askew’s chief of staff in the 1970s.

Winsor acted on behalf of Secretary of State Ken Detzner, whose official duties include overseeing elections and campaign finance.

He also echoed condemnations that the suit was “a cynically timed political ploy,” as legislative leaders have called it.

“Florida officials have in fact relied for years on blind trusts to avoid conflicts of interest,.” Winsor wrote, mentioning most recently former Gov. Jeb Bush, a Republican, and former CFO Alex Sink, a Democrat.

“Until now, no person has challenged their propriety—especially not in an emergency Supreme Court original action on the eve of a qualifying period,” he added. Qualifying for office begins June 16.

Lawmakers last year passed a law defining blind trusts and spelling out their use, following statewide grand jury recommendations in 2010 and Florida Commission on Ethics opinions approving of them.

If the court does find merit in Apthorp’s arguments, Winsor asked the justices to give the case to a trial judge in Tallahassee to “develop the record,” meaning to hear evidence and make an initial recommendation.

The issue has attracted other high-profile parties who asked for a say, including the Florida Legislature, League of Women Voters of Florida, the open-government watchdog First Amendment Foundation, and several of the state’s newspapers.

The Legislature’s brief, released Monday, makes many of the same arguments as Winsor.

Apthorp, represented by former Florida State University law dean and president Sandy D’Alemberte, now has till noon Wednesday to counter the state’s arguments. D’Alemberte declined comment Monday.

Scott’s trust was last reported as worth nearly $73 million, generating about $3 million yearly in income. The governor’s other assets and income gave him a net worth of almost $84 million at the end of 2012.
