
We’ve really been impressed by Lurpak’s new Cook’s Range of butters, but of course we’re merely amateur cooks and chefs. We’ve certainly made a lot of dishes, and we’ve made a few mistakes, but mostly we’ve made progress thanks to the ease of use of the butters and the way they encourage creativity.

The real test though is what proper professional chefs can do with a product. So we spoke to four very different kinds of cooks to see what they made of the Cook’s range in their kitchens,

Fancy eating a candle made of beef fat, lit and dripping into its candle stand and accompanied by handmade bread in a book-like leather case? Well that’s a signature dish at a restaurant in Tooley Street, London.

Tom Seller’s first restaurant is called  Restaurant Story  and adventure and stories are what Tom is all about - the story memories of childhood foods, the stories we tell at the table and the stories we take away.

Or leave, because Tom encourages his diners to leave a book behind to add to the growing restaurant collection. The Michelin inspectors have left something too; a Star arrived just six months after opening, not bad for a 26-year-old chef with no formal training. We caught up with Tom just after lunch service so he was a bit breathless but keen to chat.

Every Tuesday,  The Secret Larder  a supper club based in Highbury, North London feeds 30 people a set menu in the coffee shop  Vagabond N7 . Chef and founder James Ramsden is also the author of Small Adventures in Cooking and Do-Ahead Dinners and straddles the line between amateur and professional chef, cooking adventurous food but with a relaxed and unpretentious style that encourages others to follow his lead.

We asked James about what he gets up to with Lurpak and after dealing with his dog, who wanted to join the conversation, he told us about his small adventures with  Lurpak Cooking Mist .

‘I’ve made a  Cote De Boeuf  using the mist to glaze it,’ he tells us, ‘the spray gives a nice even coating and it’s so easy to use. I even misted oven chips with it! It works really well and you get that butter richness. I’ve also come up with a  bacon and pickled jalapeño cornbread , which is lovely as well.

There have been cooking sprays before though? ‘Oh yes but they didn’t have that buttery flavour’.

Author of hugely popular books that tied in with his BBC2 series -  What to Eat Now  and  What to Eat Now - More Please!  Valentine’s is a face often seen on TV and on the pages of prestigious food magazines such as Olive. He’s said to be a bit of a pin up chef for the ladies too, but we aren’t here to talk about that but how he uses  Lurpak Cooking Liquid .

Fair to say that Valentine loves his Lurpak.

Lily Jones (aka Lilli Vanilli) has plenty of celebrity fans of her cakes, which are the show stopping centrepiece of many a top party. When all other bakers were doing cute Lily would come up with cakes that made the eyes pop, such as Roadkill cake, gingerbread gravestones and marzipan beetles. There’s a softer side to her though and visitors to her bakery in the trendy East End of London will find plenty of adventurous ideas but not so much of the gore she was previously famous for. She’s still not exactly Mary Berry, but her creations won’t scare the in-laws either.

‘I’m using the  Lurpak Baking Butter .’ she explains,’ it’s a blend of butter and rapeseed oil and the core concept is that the butter is the right consistency to bake with direct from the fridge, which is really cool. You don’t have plan ahead to take it out in advance or put it in the microwave to use it. And it’s not weird stuff like margarine, which I think is almost a kind of plastic'.

So what for you is the biggest attraction of Lurpak Baking Butter? Lilli is in no doubt to the answer as far as she’s concerned. ‘It’s perfect for impulse baking, for whipping up something when the mood takes you, it’s revolutionary really’.
