
Vietnam Missionaries Revs. Ut and Karen Vo-To will be visiting the Foot Hills District from May 29 to May 31. Gilman United Methodist Church is one of the few churches who will be hosting them while they are in the United States. This husband and wife team has been doing ministry in their native country. What a story they have to tell about how God is working in Vietnam to spread the message of Christ in this country which is 98% Buddhist. Rev. Karen is one of the missionaries we support at Gilman with prayers and monetary support. They will be at Gilman on Friday evening, May 30 from 5:30 p.m. through 7:30 p.m. The public is invited.

A mission dinner will be held from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. served by the United Methodist Women. The menu will include hamloaf or meatloaf, cheesy potatoes, green beans, roll, dessert and beverage. A free will offering will go to their mission work in Vietnam. A presentation about their mission will be from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m.

They serve as missionaries in Vietnam, planting new churches and working with government leaders and the General Board of Global Ministries to have the United Methodist Church in Vietnam recognized and registered, moving it from the underground into the open.  Their work has resulted in the establishment of 162 new house churches. Her work focuses on recruiting women to study for pastoral ministry. She works with a women's support group to encourage them to "reach their full potential in Jesus Christ; to promote fellowship among women at the national level; to provide vehicles of communication for women, listening to and offering solutions for the women's needs; and to present the whole gospel to the whole person," she says. Rev. Vo-To also serves as coordinator for the Women's Ministry. He trains Christian leaders in developing new congregations and nurturing Christians in the region. "I believe that through my teaching and example, I will prepare students for their future work as preachers, teachers, and pastors," he says, "and through my witness many new congregations will be established.
