
Not only is it important to teach your kids proper safety precautions, but it's also crucial that you take your own actions into account.

A health issue caused Aaron Cook to have part of his leg amputated, and he and his daughter learned one of its drawbacks the hard way.

Rhode Island police officers have been involved in 14 shootings since 2009, but a third of those cases happened this year.

Target 12 fact check on latest campaign ad claiming state wastes millions on paper timesheets.

Glenn Michael’s line is inspired by family, hope, and a promise of a better tomorrow.

Designs from BlueMoonStone Creations will be on display at the Accessory Showcase all week long.

PROVIDENCE, R.I. (WPRI) – Thousands of local college students graduated this past week, and research suggests that many of these recent graduates will leave Rhode Island and take their talents elsewhere.

Governor Lincoln Chafee urged more than 3,000 students from the University of Rhode Island who got their diplomas to explore, but keep Rhode Island close in their hearts.

“It’s very important that the young people coming out of, whether Salve Regina or Bryant or Roger Williams or URI, stay here,” said Chafee.

According to a Greater Providence Chamber of Commerce study, two out of three graduates leave Rhode Island after getting their degrees. The Ocean State also has one of the highest rates of college loan debt in the country.

According to Chafee, the state is working to turn things around and motivate talented youth to stay here in Rhode Island. Not all local graduates though, plan to stay in the smallest state.

“Rhode Island’s so small and I think that I want to be involved in bigger projects, so that usually means places like New York, California, or out of the country,” said RISD graphic design student Hayon Shin.

Lawmakers have recently introduced several bills to keep graduates here, including one that would give a tax credit to recent college graduates for up to ten years. Chafee said he will be looking at that bill and whether the state can afford it at what he called a critical time.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
