
NEW DELHI: Narendra Modi’s twitter diplomacy continues to gather steam with each new day, as he reminisces about his interaction with Japan during his days as Chief Minister of Gujarat, with the country’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and finally acknowledges US president Barack Obama two days after their phone conversation.

“In our conversation, @BarackObama & I talked about further strengthening India-USA strategic partnership that will help both nations,” Modi tweeted on Monday night - perhaps coinciding with the start of the day in Washington.

Similarly, his twitter handle (@narendramodi) thanked US Secretary of State John Kerry for his twitter congratulations on May 16.

In the meantime, Modi had promptly thanked and acknowledged the letters and phone calls of scores of other global leaders since May 16. So, this two-day delay in replying back is being seen as a deliberate snub to US leaders and a lingering resentment over the denial of a visa, in the backdrop of the 2002 riots.

Even though the Japan PM’s good wishes came ‘offline’, Modi again took to twitter to thank him. In fact, he pointedly mentioned that Japan had continued to be in touch with him during his tenure as Chief Minister, even though he was a diplomatic pariah for the western countries.

“Personally, I have a wonderful experience of working with Japan as CM. I am sure we will take India-Japan ties to newer heights,” Modi tweeted.

He also gave special attention to Russia, tweeting to Russian President’s twitter handle that “India-Russia friendship has stood the test of time”.

Even as Modi remained busy trying to give shape to his cabinet and administration, he also had to field dozens of phones calls from foreign leaders.

On Monday, he spoke to French President Francois Hollande, German chancellor Angela Merkel and Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy.

On Twitter, he also acknowledged the good wishes from the neighbourhood, thanking Nepal  President Ram Baran Yadav, PM Sushil Koirala and former PM Baburam Bhattarai.

“Nepal is an old & deeply valued friend. We are committed to strengthening our relations with Nepal in various spheres,” he tweeted.

Interestingly, besides Kerry, Maldives’ Opposition leader Mohamed Nasheed is the only other non-head of government to whom Narendra Modi has replied on Twitter.
