
Share This Story!

These ten spots range from pre-colonial times to the recent past, covering all of America.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

These were the questions we posed ourselves when coming up with a list of 10 historic sites to visit around America. Below is a list that takes into account America's rich history, from pre-colonial times to the recent past, in chronological order.

1. Mesa Verde National Park : More than 600 ancient Pueblo cliff dwellings dot the landscape of Mesa Verde National Park, the nation's largest archeological preserve.  Visiting the 81.4 square mile park in southwestern Colorado requires a vehicle. But ranger-led tours provide visitors entry and context to these cliffside ruins which date as far back as the 7th century.

2. St. Augustine : The oldest continuously occupied European settlement in North America celebrates its 450th birthday in 2015. Of interest here are the 17th century forts of Castillo de San Marcos and Fort Matanzas and St. George Street, which is dotted with historic homes, churches, and museums. Nearby beaches make a visit to St. Augustine even sweeter.

3. Colonial Williamsburg and the History Triangle : Three towns form Virginia's "History Triangle," which attracts approximately 4 million visitors per year.   Jamestown was the first permanent English settlement in the Americas. Yorktown saw one of the most pivotal battles of the American Revolution. History comes alive in Colonial Williamsburg, where costumed characters act-out the details of early American life.

4. Boston Freedom Trail : Boston is known as the "Birthplace of the American Revolution," a nickname that comes into context along the city's 2.5 mile walkable Freedom Trail. Sites along the trail include many of Boston's most famous landmarks, such as the Old South Meeting House, Faneuil Hall, and the Old North Church.

5. Independence National Historical Park : Approximately 20 blocks of the city of Philadelphia make up Independence National Historical Park, a collection of more than two-dozen sites dating from this country's early days as a nation. America's most precious documents, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, were debated and signed in Independence Hall, the keystone of the park. Visitors can also see the Liberty Bell, tour the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial, and dine at the City Tavern, in operation since 1773.

6. Washington, DC : From the museums that house art and artifacts from every American era, to memorials that enshrine the USA's greatest leaders, Washington is a one-stop shop for history loving travelers. One could spend years visiting just the sites in and around the National Mall, including the U.S. Capitol, the Smithsonian Museums, the White House, and the newly restored Washington Monument.

7. The Alamo : The Alamo is one of the most famous historic sites in the United States, attracting more than 2.5 million visitors annually. This "Shrine of Texas Liberty" is the site where 189 Texan rebels, including Davy Crockett, died in 1836 while fighting Mexican General Santa Anna's 1,800-strong army. This brave defeat served as a rallying cry – "Remember the Alamo!"  – for Texan rebels, who defeated the Mexican army in the subsequent and final Battle of San Jacinto, thereby earning Texas its independence.

8. Gettysburg National Historical Park : Fifty-one thousand Union and Confederate soldiers died in July 1863 during a three-day battle at Gettysburg, the bloodiest conflict of the Civil War. Four months later, President Abraham Lincoln eulogized fallen Union troops in the Gettysburg Address, one of the most famous speeches in American history. Today, the Gettysburg National Military Park and Cemetery is one of the most revered sites in the nation.

9. Henry Ford Museum : Few innovations symbolize modern American history quite like the automobile. Industrialist Henry Ford perfected the mass production of cars at his plant in Dearborn, Michigan, now the site of The Henry Ford Museum. Billed as "America's Greatest History Destination," the museum includes 200 acres of attractions. Visitors can take a Ford Factory Tour and see a significant collection of vehicles, from early aviation innovations to presidential limousines. Also located on site is Greenfield Village, an attraction that lets visitors experience seven different time periods, from a working farms to an early railroad junction.

10. The National Civil Rights Museum at the Lorraine Motel : A wreath hangs outside room 306 of the Lorraine Motel as a poignant reminder of the site where Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated on April 4, 1968. Today, the motel, which has maintained its early 1960s look to commemorate that fateful day, is the site of the National Civil Rights Museum. The exhibitions within the museum chronicle the Civil Rights Movement, from the days of slavery through Dr. King's last hours and legacy, making this Memphis attraction an important stop in understanding the ongoing struggle for equal rights.
