
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Dr. Gavin Awerbuch was arraigned in federal court in Detroit on May 6.

The FBI, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service say Awerbuch prescribed unneeded medication to patients, including the cancer pain-relieving drug Subsys, a fentanyl spray, and billed Medicare and private insurers for medical tests he didn't conduct.

The article calls Subsys Insys's "moneymaker" that has helped to push its stock share price to 270 percent in the past year before it dropped in the  two weeks following raids by federal authorities at Dr. Awerbuch's Saginaw office. The article also questions the company's marketing tactics involving the drug.

The federal complaint against the doctor alleges Awerbuch is "far and away the top prescriber of Subsys for Medicare beneficiaries" from January 2009 to Feb. 6, 2014, and wrote approximately 1,283 prescriptions for Medicare beneficiaries during that time, receiving nearly $7 million from Medicare Part D for Subsys prescriptions.

Insys issued a clarifying statement about Subsys on May 12, saying the company "remains committed to our compliance program and protocols in place that are designed to ensure our sales and marketing practices comply with applicable laws."

"Insys takes patient safety very seriously, and we are committed to working with physicians to help ensure the proper prescribing and use of our products," the statement reads.

"Subsys can only be prescribed after physicians have undergone training on the risks and benefits of such products, and products can only be dispensed via pharmacies who are (Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy access program) enrolled," it goes on to state.

"Insys remains committed to our compliance program and protocols in place that are designed to ensure our sales and marketing practices comply with applicable laws."

Meanwhile, Saturday, May 17, in Saginaw, more than 30 people stood together in the parking lot at 5889 Bay outside Awerbach's closed office, some holding signs that read "Stop the pain of injustice," and "Dr. Awerbuch is there for his patients," among other messages of support for the neurologist.

Awerbuch is free on a $10,000 bond and must appear in federal court at 1 p.m. Tuesday, May 27. The conditions of his bond state he cannot prescribe controlled substances, bill Medicare or other federal health care programs and must surrender his concealed pistol license and passport.

The FBI is coordinating the effort to  return medical records  to patients, said David Porter, FBI Detroit supervisory special agent. To contact the FBI Bay City office, visit 115 First in Bay City or call 989-892-6525.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
