
If you or someone you love is still concerned about that potential safety breach at Griffin Hospital, they are being asked to call the hospital hotline and make plans to get tested.

A letter was sent to 3,100 patients who could have been exposed to possible disease transmission between Sept. 1, 2008 and May 7, 2014.

Hospital officials said those people should receive the letters over the next three days, which is expected to prompt additional calls from concerned patients. They will want to come in for free testing and counseling.

"[We] scheduled 104 patients to come in, and 40 of them have been through the process today," said Ken Roberts, who is the spokesman for Griffin Hospital.

Roberts said those 104 patients had their blood drawn and received counseling.

Griffin Hospital staffers have been fielding phone calls non-stop since Friday's announcement.

The pens were multi-dose pens meant for a single patient, according to hospital officials. The needle itself that goes into the skin is designed for one-time use.

However, they believe the pens may have been used on multiple patients. Five nurses told management they did just that or witnessed another nurse do the same.

"We did retraining immediately, when we discovered this first maybe an issue," Roberts said. "We've also taken the pens out of use at the hospital and gone to single-use vials with regular hypodermics. So pens are no longer in use."

Even with new needles, the possibility exists the insulin cartridge can contaminate from one person to another by the backflow of blood or skin cells.

"We're doing our own internal investigation to see what's warranted in this case," Roberts said.

The hospital's spokesman said they expect additional calls for free Hepatitis and HIV testing once those 3,100 letters arrive in the mail.   They're currently scheduling about three appointments for testing every 10 minutes.

Though Herrschaft was never given one of the insulin pens in question, she's pregnant with her second child and said she is now considering delivering elsewhere.

"I was there last week for bloodwork," Herrschaft said. "I wanna make sure I'm clean, so gonna go to another place to get bloodwork done."

The hospital has a list of those 3,100 patients, and once they call, it is being noted.

Hospital officials said so far there hasn't been any specific patient who received an insulin injection from another patient's insulin pen, but they'll keep their phone line and testing open as long as is necessary. They encouraged everyone get tested within one month of getting this letter.

Those affected were being urged to call a hotline for Hepatitis and HIV  testing. The letter said the hotline numbers 203-732-1411 and  203-732-1340 were going to be staffed from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. seven days a  week.

For more information from Griffin Hospital, click here .

Copyright 2014 WFSB (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.

An 88-year-old woman from Hamden was seriously injured after she let in an uninvited visitor Sunday night.

The Connecticut Lottery said someone won the second prize in its "Lucky for Life" drawing back on Feb. 27, but did not come forward until last week.

Fort Lee officials say a soldier has died after she likely shot herself at the post Monday morning.

A crash briefly shut down the southbound side of the Merritt Parkway near Exit 51 in Trumbull on Monday afternoon, police said.

In less than a minute the officers knew they had the wrong car.

The lead up to this year's VMAs has proven particularly dangerous. Suge Knight was shot, Iggy Azalea fell off stage and a snake bit a Nicki Minaj back-up dancer.

All content © 2014, WFSB; Hartford, CT. (A Meredith Corporation Station) and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.
