
The DOT is preparing to bid the first phase of the Zoo Interchange core's reconstruction.

The Wisconsin Department of Transportation will spend a combined $13.5 million in its deal to settle the lawsuit challenging the Zoo Interchange’s reconstruction.

The specific Milwaukee-area bus routes that the money will pay for still must be developed, according to a DOT announcement. The settlement includes $11.5 million to finance routes for four years, and $2 million to create real-time transit route information and encourage people to ride the bus routes.

Milwaukee County is earmarked to get $2,875,000 , according to a Milwaukee County report. One route identified Monday in a Milwaukee County report would carry workers in Milwaukee’s central city to the Park Place Business Park on the city’s far northwest side and the Menomonee Falls industrial park. That route, to start in August, will cost $245,000 this year and $668,000 in 2015.

The Wisconsin DOT negotiated the settlement with Milwaukee Inner-City Congregations Allied for Hope and the Black Health Coalition of Wisconsin. Those organizations sued the state in August 2012 to challenge the $1.7 billion Zoo Interchange reconstruction plan because it does not include any improvements to public transit.

The state last year started reconstruction of streets surrounding the Zoo Interchange, and this fall will begin major reconstruction of the Interchange’s core ramps. The project is to be complete by the end of 2018.

Reporter Sean Ryan covers commercial and residential real estate for the Milwaukee Business Journal and through the Real Estate Roundup blog on the website. He also covers construction, highways and public transit.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
