
To hear the candidates running for secretary of state in the June 3 election tell it, the race is about electing the next nerd-in-chief for California.

All of the candidates are campaigning on the need to make better use of computers and modern technology to increase voter registration and turnout while modernizing the office to make it more responsive to companies moving to the state.

Secretary of State Debra Bowen, a Democrat, is being termed out of office after multiple years of budget cuts due to the recession.

Padilla, 41, has argued he is the most technologically suited for the job because of his background as a mechanical engineer with a degree from  MIT.

But his opponents — who include Derek Cressman and Jeffrey Drobman, both Democrats; Pete Peterson and Roy Allmond, both  Republicans; Dan Schnur, with no party preference; and David Curtis, a Green Party candidate — all argue they have the technical or management skills to accomplish change.

Because of the top-two primary rules, only the top-two vote getters will face off in the November general election.

Factors outside the campaign itself have had a dramatic impact on the race.

Sen. Leland Yee, D-San Francisco, who many had considered the leading candidate, dropped out of the race after his arrest on corruption charges. However, his name still appears on the ballot.

Peterson, 47, a Pepperdine University professor and former executive director of California Common Sense California, who has emerged as the favorite in independent public opinion polls, said he has the ability to oversee a large organization to bring about the reforms needed in the office.

Peterson said much of his work was on a bipartisan basis, and he talks of the need to engage all Californians in becoming more involved.

“I am not sure if we take citizenship seriously enough,” Peterson said. “I think the onus needs to be on the citizens to turn out. Much of the work I do is to make sure citizens understand the importance of their vote in making decisions.

Peterson also argues that while Padilla might have a more technical understanding of computers, he is the one to bring a management style to implement changes.

Cressman, 46, said he wants to work to reduce the influence of money in elections by banning corporate money in politics.

Cressman said he also would be more effective than his opponents because of his management skills.

Schnur, 50, is executive director of the Unruh Institute at USC after a term as chairman of the Fair Political Practices Commission. He got involved in politics at an early age, working for the state Republican Party and former Gov. Pete Wilson.

“It has been 10 years since I last worked for a candidate,” Schnur said. “I am running because I don’t see anyone else willing to go to Sacramento and trying to fix a broken system of politics.

Schnur said one of the main efforts he would make is to ban all fundraising when the Legislature is in session.

Allmond, 54, is an employee in the Secretary of State’s Office. He said he decided to run to continue with the reforms started by former Secretary of State Bill Jones.

“We had started to modernize the work here and that’s what we need to continue,” Allmond said.

Green Party candidate Curtis, 49, had run for governor in Nevada before moving to California.

“I hope to neutralize the election process so candidates get a fair shake regardless of party affiliation,” Curtis said, adding he would work to overturn the top-two primary system, which he said hurts those from smaller parties.

Drobman, 65, a computer consultant and a Democrat, said his priority is trying to bring about online voting in the state.
