
The last time officials from Klyde Warren Park and the Dallas Arts District were talking about a public improvement district, an ugly public conflict erupted .

It was a far different story when the two parties got together in recent months to draw a new, expanded district that will generate new revenues for the Arts District.

The council committee later signed off on a plan to dissolve the current PID and replace it with a bigger one that includes more of the Arts District area and the Perot Museum of Nature and Science.

Property owners in the area will still be assessed 2.5 cents per $100 appraised value, which is the rate within the existing district.

The revenues generated within the original PID area will continue to go toward park operations and maintenance. The money that comes from the new territory will go to the nonprofit Dallas Arts District (DAD). It will be used in part for Arts District marketing and events.

Overall, the district is expected to generate more than $750,000 in annual revenue beginning next year.

Last year, officials from the sides got in a dust-up because Arts District leaders said they felt blindsided by the park’s plan to create the PID. They argued that the park is not the only public facility in the Uptown area that could use an influx of cash.

The two sides worked through their differences and planned all along to come back and expand the boundaries.

In order to dissolve the existing PID, officials needed signatures from property owners representing at least 60 percent of the property value and 60 percent of the land area within that zone.

Then, they needed to hit the same thresholds within the proposed new boundaries. They exceeded both.

The proposal is expected to go to the full City Council for a vote on June 25. If approved, the new PID will be known as the Klyde Warren Park/Dallas Arts District PID.

Our City Hall reporters and other Dallas Morning News writers and editors provide in-depth features, breaking news and offbeat tidbits through lively coverage of Dallas government.  Readers are encouraged to join the conversation.
