
Crude oil futures extended last week’s rally during early trading in Europe today, as bloody fighting in Libya over the weekend boosted the risk premium. Elsewhere, Ukraine is preparing to hold presidential elections this week, and Kiev began talks in an attempt to deescalate tensions and provide a safer environment for the vote.

West Texas Intermediate futures for settlement in July traded for $101.84 per barrel at 6:41 GMT on the New York Mercantile Exchange, adding 0.26%, daily prices between $101.52 and $101.87 per barrel. Last week the contract added more than 2% as driving season in the US draws nearer.

Meanwhile on the ICE in London, Brent futures due in July recorded a 0.40% rise to trade for $110.19 per barrel at 6:34 GMT. Prices ranged from $109.73 to $110.20 per barrel, nearing a two-month high. Brent’s premium to WTI July contracts stood at $8.35, widening Friday’s closing margin of $8.17. Last week the contract gained 2.30% with support from Ukraine and higher gasoline demand in the US.

Libya holds Africa’s biggest oil reserves and has a potential output of more than 4 million barrels per day. However, as of last Thursday output is at 200 000 barrels daily, according to the National Oil Corporation.

The country has seen much turmoil since the ousting of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi. Now Libya has an Islamist-backed government, and the presence of religious hardliners in Tripoli fueled dissent among the rebels, who took down Gaddafi’s regime.

The powerful rebel brigades, alongside forces loyal to retired colonel Khalifa Haftar stormed the Libyan parliament on Sunday, killing two. The militias demanded the body be disbanded and a new structure be set in its place, in order to draw a non-Islamist constitution. The government assured it was in control, but warlords have been controlling large fiefdoms since the Arab spring began.

“There’s no real parliament in here, in Libya. There’s no real government, there’s militias everywhere,” said National Forces Alliance party member Tawfik Breik, the BBC reported.

Elsewhere in the country, El Feel oilfield has once again been closed, after a brief reopening last week. It is not clear whether the closure is in connection with the escalating turmoil, but it has nevertheless stifled hopes of improved Libyan oil output.

Kiev is holding talks with political and civic leaders in an attempt to devise a way out of the crisis, which has dominated the geopolitical scene for the past months. However, separatist militia were not represented. Acting Ukrainian President Olexandr Turchynov said Kiev was prepared to listen to rebels, but they must lay down their arms first.

The talks are part of the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe’s “roadmap” out of the crisis and an attempt to defuse tensions before the presidential elections on May 25th. The US threatened more sanctions if “Russia or its proxies” try to ruin the vote.

Previously, Donetsk and Luhansk regions declared independence, following the referendum last Sunday. Separatist leaders said all Ukrainian troops in the provinces will be regarded as “occupying” forces. The Kremlin said it expects the “will of the people be implemented,” though has yet to comment on the rebels’ requests for Moscow to incorporate the regions in the Russian Federation.

According to Binary Tribune’s daily analysis, in case the West Texas Intermediate July future on the NYMEX breaches the first resistance level at $101.91, it probably will continue up to test $102.24. Should the second key resistance be broken, the US benchmark will most likely attempt to advance to $102.71.

If the contract manages to breach the first key support at $101.11, it will probably continue to drop and test $100.64. With this second key support broken, the movement to the downside will probably continue to $100.31.

BinaryTribune is a financial media specialized in providing daily news and education covering Forex, equities and commodities. Our academies for traders cover Forex , Price Action , Binary Options and Social Trading .

MetaTrader4, Market Trader,  WebTrader,

Regulated by FCA of the United Kingdom.

Founded in 2013, Binary Tribune aims at providing its readers accurate and actual financial news coverage. Our website is focused on major segments in financial markets – stocks, currencies and commodities, and interactive in-depth explanation of key economic events and indicators.

BinaryTribune.com will not be held liable for the loss of money or any damage caused from relying on the information on this site. Trading forex, stocks and commodities on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite.

This website uses cookies to provide you with the very best experience and to know you better. By visiting our website with your browser set to allow cookies, you consent to our use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy.
