
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Alabama Senate District 7 Democratic candidates Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin and Mitchell Howie sat down with AL.com on May 16, 2014, to discuss their race in the upcoming June 3 Democratic primary. The winner will face the Republican nominee - either incumbent District 7 Sen. Paul Sanford or David Blair, currently president of the Huntsville school board - in the November general election. The district includes most of the Huntsville city limits and stretches north to take in parts of the Meridianville, Moores Mill and Hazel Green areas.

Rose Gaskin is a former courier at COLSA Corp. and first-time candidate from Hazel Green. Mitchell Howie is a Huntsville lawyer who ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2010. Both candidates were asked to respond to the same five questions, and they alternated who went first.

The responses below have been edited.

A. Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin -- "Overall, the biggest need is representation of citizens and their rights. We have a lot of business representation and special interest representation, but Main Street economy, education and equality is not being represented. I believe that's the biggest thing, that we need to have somebody representing us - the people."

A: Mitchell Howie - "Biggest need is job creation and public education, and those are the two things I'm running on. The Alabama Accountability Act is not good public policy for anybody ... that lives in Senate District 7. I want to make sure that we right that ship and fund public education the way it's supposed to be funded, and not subsidize private education with public education dollars."

A: Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin - "Public education is one of the most pressing issues, but it's more in the tax reform. The way they took money from public education is through taxation - moving around our public funds to private interests. We need to stop that happening in all levels of government - to keep our public funds for public programs."

A: Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin - "I wouldn't say I didn't have political (experience). I'm on the board of the Madison County Women's Democrats. I've been politically active for years. I want my political career to be public representative. I want to be a public servant, and I don't have anything to lose by being a public servant - career-wise or otherwise. There's a ... Greek proverb that says, 'Great societies are built when old men plant trees whose shade they will never sit in.' And that includes old women. I see my grandchildren every day, and it's their future. I have a vision for the future, not the problems of today. We have to fix them, but we don't have to reinvent the wheel to fix them. Just people representation will fix them."

A: Mitchell Howie - "Public education and roads are the crux of what government does, so I'd be very active in assisting the city getting whatever they need from the state. I would ensure that I was working with our city leaders and not going it alone with leaders from Montgomery. Make sure Madison County is well represented, and we're not forgot about. That's what I would do when I go down there."

A: Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin - "Infrastructure is a problem, not just roads. We have failing bridges and all that. Part of that is the funding, the way ... so much money goes to private interests. We have to stop that. We have to take care of our future by taking care of our infrastructure. Huntsville is my hometown. I have a vested interest in it having bridges that won't crumble or roads that are bad. All of the infrastructure - the parks, everything - is important to me. That is our guarantee to the future that we are carrying on the duties that our parents and grandparents carried on."

Q: Let's mix it up a little bit. I'm going to give each of you a chance to ask the other a question. Let's stick to the issues.

A: Mitchell Howie - "First want to address the first part of the question. My family has deep roots here. My grandfather, Dr. Howie, lived here, raised eight children here. They came back, I traveled around - lived in Texas, lived in California. We moved back here when I was a freshman in high school. I went to Huntsville High School for two years, so I do have a deep connection to Huntsville. The political connections -- I worked as chief of staff for a state representative in Texas. That allowed me an inside look and experience at learning how state government works and operates. I certainly think the experience I gained in Texas would allow me to operate effectively in the Alabama Legislature."

A: Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin - "Absolutely. I know I joke. When he signed up I told him, 'It's good to meet you, I need someone to campaign for me in your neighborhood.' I want to progress the people's agenda. Any way I can do that, and whoever I can work with to get that done, I will do."

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
