
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

FOLEY, Alabama -- The city is looking for some community support to become a finalist in the PetSafe Bark For Your Park contest.

The winner of the nationwide contest will receive $100,000 toward the construction of a dog park and four runners-up will received $25,000.

In order to win, the cities that have been nominated for the contest -- and there are hundreds of them -- must garner the most votes. Individuals can vote twice a day for their favorite cities at www.petsafe.net/barkforyourpark .

PetSafe, a pet product and services company, will announce 15 finalists on July 13 and voting will close on July 31. The winner and runners-up will be revealed August 7.

As of 4 p.m. Monday, the city had 399 votes. Councilman Ralph Hellmich is one of a handful of people who posted on the city's message board on the PetSafe contest website.

"Please pass this contest on to your friends and neighbors ... it would nice for the city of Foley to get behind this and help our community," Hellmich wrote.

In December, the council approved spending up to $290,500 to construct its first-ever dog park and a roughly 85-space parking lot on two acres behind the post office, bordered by Orange Avenue to the north and Myrtle Avenue to the south. The city contracted with Watkins Acy Strunk Design for $11,700 to design the park.

In April the city held a public input meeting on the dog park and continues to fine-tune its designs. City Administrator Mike Thompson said the new park design will be presented to the council at its first meeting in June.

Early plans for the park called for a pond and a path intersecting it that will connect to the existing Rose Trail with a gate.  The parking lot will likely be completed first since it will serve a new city medical clinic next to the property.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
