
Syrah's sinking popularity in California has been well-publicized. But you won't see any hand-wringing over syrah in Washington state. To the contrary, syrah is Washington's current "it" grape.

Wines made from syrah can run the gamut from Australian-style shiraz -- ripe, jammy, often high in alcohol -- to the more elegant, savory examples from France's northern Rhone River Valley. Washington winemaker Bob Betz of Betz Family Winery in Woodinville thinks the Washington style tends more toward the Old World. The best Washington syrahs I've tasted have ample fruit, but they are accented by nuances common in the northern Rhone, such as white pepper, smoke, roasted meat and mineral.

Syrah is popular there now -- at more than 3,000 acres, it's Washington's third most planted red grape, behind cabernet sauvignon and merlot -- but the grape is a fairly recent arrival to the state. Syrah's Rhone cousin, grenache, was one of the earliest vinifera grapes planted in Washington, but for years, it was used mostly in rosé and cheap blends. In the mid-1980s, the late David Lake, then the winemaker at Columbia Winery, persuaded grower Mike Sauer to plant syrah at his Red Willow Vineyard in the Yakima Valley. (Sauer says he was looking at planting nebbiolo.) Lake saw similarities between eastern Washington and the northern Rhone, where syrah finds its greatest expression.

Lake clearly was on to something. He produced the state's first commercial syrah at Columbia in 1988, and it was met with approval. The grape also proved to be cold-hardy enough to survive eastern Washington's sometimes severe winters. Soon it was being planted elsewhere in the Yakima Valley and beyond.

"Syrah has probably been our best variety since day one," Sauer says. "It can reveal its site more than just about any variety we grow."

There are still some excellent syrahs being made from Red Willow -- Eight Bells Winery, for example, produces a spicy, smoky Red Willow syrah -- and elsewhere in Yakima Valley, but the current hot spot for syrah is the Walla Walla Valley. Some Walla Walla syrah vines are planted on fine, windblown soils, while others are on sites littered with cobblestones from alluvial fans.

Rocks fruit "is so northern Rhone," says Greg Harrington of Gramercy Cellars, who makes fine syrah from several spots in Walla Walla.

Other good Walla Walla syrahs to look for include those from Amavi Cellars, Spring Valley Vineyard, Proper Winery and Mackey Vineyards. Buty makes an excellent syrah-dominant blend called Rediviva of the Stones.

The best Washington syrahs are on the pricey side, and many will be difficult to find without some effort. For more budget-minded options, look for the Columbia Valley syrahs from Château Ste. Michelle and Columbia Crest, both of which are less than $15.

Despite grenache's earlier track record in Washington -- and the fact that there are only 250 acres of it now -- more vintners are taking it seriously. One is Betz, who also makes some wonderful syrahs. His 2011 Betz Family Besoleil ($48), a blend dominated by grenache, displays lively berry, white pepper and fine tannins. From Yakima Valley, the 2010 àMaurice Boushey Vineyard Grenache ($38) offers roasted strawberry fruit, hints of orange peel and roasted almonds, and fine tannins.

I sampled some delicious Washington syrahs at the recent Taste Washington event in Seattle, as well as during a few winery visits and in blind tastings at home.

The 2012 Proper Winery Syrah ($44) hails from the rocks in Walla Walla. The wine is smoky and spicy, with flavors of blackberry, roasted meat and white pepper. From elsewhere in Walla Walla, the 2011 Amavi Cellars Syrah ($32) is robust and structured, with dark berry fruit and spice, while the 2011 Mackey Vineyards Syrah ($32) displays sweet, roasted berry with a touch of minerality and firm tannins.

The 2011 Spring Valley "Nina Lee" Syrah ($60) is peppery and dark, with lively berry fruit and some smoky, meaty notes. The 2011 Gramercy Cellars "John Lewis" Syrah ($75) has similar savory notes of pepper, smoke and roasted meat.

The 2011 Buty Rediviva of the Stones ($60) is mostly syrah, with a little cabernet and mourvedre; it offers flavors of roasted strawberry, savory notes of cedar and anise, and fine tannins. Another blend, the 2010 Rasa Vineyards QED ($50), is nearly 80 percent Walla Walla syrah and tastes of spicy, dark berry, roasted coffee and firm, drying tannins.

The 2011 Maison Bleue "Liberte" Syrah ($50) is from Boushey Vineyard in the Yakima Valley. The wine is structured, with plump fruit, a lot of white pepper and a hint of smoke.

Hedges Family Estate produces syrah from the tiny Red Mountain appellation, which is better known for cabernet sauvignon. Its 2011 "Descendants Liegeois Dupont" Syrah ($25) offers lively berry, a slight roasted note, hard spices and medium tannins, while the 2010 "Goedhart Family" Syrah ($30) is leaner and lithe, with spicy, lively berry and medium tannins. DeLille Cellars also makes an outstanding syrah from the Grand Ciel Vineyard in Red Mountain.

You'll also see a number of syrahs with the Columbia Valley appellation, usually because they're blended from vineyards in several growing areas. Australian John Duval, best known as the former winemaker for the iconic Penfolds Grange, makes a Columbia Valley syrah called Sequel for Long Shadows Vintners ($50). The wine is dark and dense, with black fruit, roasted coffee, a hint of white pepper and firm tannins. It's big but well balanced.

Another Columbia Valley syrah, the 2011 Sleight of Hand "Levitation" ($45), is ripe and spicy, with black fruit and notes of white pepper, smoke and roasted meat, leading to firm tannins on the finish.
