
KEYSER - Members of Mineral County's Legislative delegation met Friday morning with West Virginia Agriculture Commissioner Walt Helmick and representatives of the Potomac State College Ag Department to discuss growing peppers.

KEYSER - Members of Mineral County's Legislative delegation met Friday morning with West Virginia Agriculture Commissioner Walt Helmick and representatives of the Potomac State College Ag Department to discuss growing peppers.

Underwood Ranches of California, which supplies Huy Fong Foods with the peppers they use to manufacture their Sriracha Hot Sauce in Irwindale, California, has requested information on the area's potential for growing a sufficient amount of peppers to supply Huy Fong Foods should the hot sauce company locate a plant in Mineral County.

Huy Fong Foods has been under fire from the Irwindale City Council for the past couple of months when a complaint was filed about the smell generated during the three-month period when the peppers are ground for the sauce.

Hearing that news, representatives of Mineral County, including Del. Gary Howell and development director Kevin Clark, launched a campaign to get the company to re-locate the plant in Mineral County.

According to Howell, however, it looks now like Huy Fong Foods may stay in California, but they are also looking for a location for a second plant.

So far, Mineral County and Texas are the only two locations that have been actively recruiting the company.

One of the concerns for the manufacturer has been the ability of this area to produce the amount of peppers needed to produce the hot sauce.

Friday, Senators Dave Sypolt and Don Cookman, Del. Howell, and Mineral County Commissioner Jerry Whisner met with Helmick at the West Virginia Agriculture office in Moorefield to discuss the potential.

Howell told the News Tribune that he feels it looks promising.

"All of this information, plus additional requested, will be provided to Underwood Ranches."

Three test crops sites have therefore been selected to plant seedlings which Underwood Ranches said they would provide.  Those locations include Potomac State College's lower farm located along the North Branch of the Potomac River, WVU's farm in the Wardensville area, and a third site as yet to be determined in the South Branch River valley.

Local farms will also be contacted about their interest in growing the peppers according to Underwood Ranches procedures.

"Confidence is high that we can meet all of the growing requirements for Underwood Ranches and Huy Fong Foods and exceed the abilities of Texas to grow the same crop at a lower cost with a more secure supply," Howell said.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
