
In an article published in Lee Enterprises newspapers on May 4, Ryan Zinke called two other women and me liars. Sticks and stones may break my bones. Now it’s time to set the record straight.

On March 11, 2014, three representatives from Concerned Women for America Legislative Action Committee (CWALAC) met with Ryan Zinke and his advisor Randy Vogel at Zinke’s office in Billings. The meeting was at Zinke’s request; he expressed a desire to know more about CWALAC. In that meeting, we shared who our organization is and what we do.

We continued to discuss other issues, and toward the end of the meeting Kristi Miller (one of the other ladies at the meeting) said, “Okay so I just want to be sure we are clear. You do in fact support abortion up to 20 weeks without restrictions?” and for the third time he answered, “Yes.” We left the meeting perplexed.

The Republican National Committee Platform states “Faithful to the ‘self-evident’ truths enshrined in the Declaration of Independence, we assert the sanctity of human life and affirm that the unborn child has a fundamental individual right to life which cannot be infringed.” Zinke is running as a member of the party that supports this platform statement.

Montanans simply want the truth. Montanans want to know where the candidates stand on this issue. It is time citizens hold every candidate accountable, not only for what they say but also for their voting record.

In the spirit of truth, transparency and accountability, CWA of Montana has sent out a Pro-Life Pledge to every candidate seeking the U.S. House seat. We will post the signed pledges as they are returned on our Web site at mt.cwfa.org . I encourage every citizen to look up each candidate’s past voting record on the internet. There are a plethora of tools available to each one of us if we are willing to take a few minutes of our time to check the facts.

Kari Zeier is the Montana state director of the Concerned Women for America Legislative Action Committee.

Posted in Hungryhorsenews , Columns on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:54 pm.

Welcome to the discussion.

It's easy to do and it's free!
