
Motor vehicle accident: At 4:15 p.m., police responded to Main Street for a minor motor vehicle accident. Police investigation revealed that Colleen Eddy, 33, of Jaffrey, had her vehicle parked on the side of Main Street behind a vehicle owned by John Bourque, 84, of Jaffrey. Bourque attempted to back up and failed to see Eddy’s vehicle and struck the front of her car at a low speed. Eddy’s vehicle sustained minor damage to the front end and Bourque’s vehicle sustained minimal damage to its rear end. Bourque provided Eddy with his insurance and operator reports were given.

Arrest: At 5:05 p.m., Jason Eddy, 32, of Jaffrey, turned himself in at the Jaffrey Police Department on a warrant from Jaffrey police charging him with theft by deception. Eddy was released on a must appear summons with a court date of June 12 at the 8th Circuit Court, Jaffrey.

Arrest: At 12:57 a.m., police stopped a green Dodge Caravan on River Street near the Rindge town line after observing multiple line violations and upon speaking with the driver, Jennifer Schmitt, 21, of Wells, M.E., police detected a strong odor of alcohol coming from the vehicle. Further investigation resulted in the arrest of Schmitt who was charged with DWI and yellow line violation. Schmitt was released on $1,000 personal recognizance with a court date of May 22 at the 8th Circuit Court, Jaffrey. The two passengers were taken into protective custody and during that process, Chad Whitten, 20, of Wells, Maine, was found to be in possession of marijuana. Police took Whitten into custody and charged him with possession of controlled/narcotic drugs and released him on $1,000 personal recognizance with a court date of June 12 at the 8th Circuit Court, Jaffrey. The third passenger was released without charges. Police provided the three a ride back to Franklin Pierce University.

Serve warrant: At 2 p.m., Melvin Burgoyne, 47, of Jaffrey, turned himself in at the Jaffrey Police Department on a warrant from Jaffrey police charging him with conduct after an accident. Burgoyne was issued a must appear summons with a court date of June 12 at the 8th Circuit Court, Jaffrey.

Arrest: At 1:17 a.m., police stopped a Mitsubishi Lancer on River Street near the Rindge town line for a yellow line violation and discovered the driver, Daniel Normal Panichas, 20, of Exeter, R.I., was in possession of marijuana and marijuana oil. He was taken into custody and charged with two counts of possession of controlled/narcotic drugs and a yellow line violation. Panichas was released on $1,500 personal recognizance with a court date of June 12 at the 8th Circuit Court, Jaffrey.

Complaint: At 12:05 p.m., while police were looking for a motorcycle involved in a motor vehicle crash complaint on Oak Street, police observed Donovan Foster, 25, of Jaffrey, walking away from the driver’s side of a black Nissan SV Pathfinder. Police stopped and spoke with Foster regarding his license status and confirmed he had been driving. Police said a warrant will be forthcoming charging Donovan with operating after suspended license.

Assist other agency: At 4 p.m., Michelle Pratt, 43, of Jaffrey, went to the police station and reported that she and her dog were it on the Rails to Trails off of River Street by a young man on a dirt bike. The rider got back on his bike and rode off, she told police. N.H. Fish and Game Trooper Boudreau responded and assisted police with obtaining the appropriate information, he will be handling the investigation, which is ongoing.

Arrest: At 6:40 p.m., Donovan Foster, 25, of Jaffrey, came to the station and turned himself in on a warrant charging him with driving after suspended license. Foster was released on $1,000 personal recognizance with a court date of June 12 at the 8th Circuit Court, Jaffrey.

Merchandise: VOLVO XC 90 wagon car mats, grey, NEW $100, 899-3360.
