
SAN ANGELO, Texas - Rigoberto Rivera told jurors he was pistol-whipped, stabbed in his right arm and then was left by himself in Elias Shawn Bihl’s bedroom before he kicked out a window unit and crawled to safety.

Bihl faces an aggravated assault with a deadly weapon charge this week at the Tom Green County District Courthouse where he stands trial. A jury was seated by noon Monday in 340th District Judge Jay Weatherby’s court, and opening arguments began that afternoon.

All the trouble started after the two took lines of cocaine and drank at their house on May 11, 2013, Rivera said. Bihl, Rivera’s roommate and former co-worker, began acting “paranoid” and told him to hide — that there were people trying to kill them.

At one point Rivera said Bihl began repeatedly striking him with a 9 mm handgun as he hunched over to avoid the blows.

San Angelo police Officer Charles Barker was called to the 1600 block of Juanita Avenue. Before he arrived he saw a Cadillac sedan crash in the 1100 block of North Jefferson Street and stopped to help.

Bihl, who was standing outside of the car, appeared to be in a state of “euphoria,” Barker testified. He kept asking for the “real police” and talked about not being sure where a gun was. At first he said owners of the house where he crashed had a gun, then he said he might have left it at the house.

“I couldn’t talk to him like a normal person,” Barker said.

Inside the car were smears of blood that police said were not consistent with Bihl’s injuries.

Prosecutors Jason Ferguson and Ashley Knight called Rivera and several other police officers who responded that night to the crash, the house where the assault allegedly took place, and the hospital where Rivera and Bihl were taken.

Rivera said he needed stitches on his ear, fingers, arms and staples on his head from injuries he suffered that night. He testified that they were in Bihl’s bedroom when the assault allegedly occurred, but that at some point Rivera was dragged into the kitchen where he believed that Bihl got a black kitchen knife.

It was later determined that it was a folding knife.

Rivera told defense attorney Nathan Butler that he didn’t get a clear view of the knife and didn’t notice some of his injuries until he was at Shannon Medical Center. Butler pressed him on how much cocaine and beer he ingested that night and questioned him extensively about the path the two moved through the house and that Bihl didn’t threaten him when Rivera followed him.

Detective Matthew Vaughn said the crash occurred about four or five blocks away from the house on Juanita Avenue. He testified about a “large amount of suspected blood” in the bedroom and confirmed that officers followed a blood trail from the room to the front porch where Rivera was found. Police said they found a blood-covered knife and handgun in the bedroom when they arrived.

Vaughn said Bihl had a relatively large cut on his right arm, near his shoulder, a cut on the right side of his neck and bruises on the left side of his forehead.

In January, Bihl was convicted on two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon and unlawful possession of a firearm by felon, charges unrelated to his current trial. Those charges were related to an early morning shooting Feb. 3, 2013, at the Nueva Vista Apartments in the 2400 block of North Lillie Street. Bihl was convicted of shooting Armando Juarez Jr. and Henry Fitchett Jr. inside Fitchett’s apartment.

Bihl was released from jail on those charges March 15, 2013, pending trial, according to online jail records. At the January trial District Judge Ben Woodward sentenced him to two 25-year prison sentences for the assault and two years for the firearm possession. Those sentences will run concurrently.

Ready to subscribe to the San Angelo Standard-Times? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-304-7763.
