
Floodwater triggered more than 3,000 landslides across the Balkans Sunday. Entire towns and villages have been destroyed and land mines have even been disturbed. American Red Cross organizations in the region are trying to help, but say their supplies are low.

The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies or IFRC are reporting thousands of people in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina are still waiting to be rescued from Flooded homes. It says it's one of the worst floods to happen in the area in more than a century. A state of emergency has been issued for 14 municipalities.

Sakib Hadzic, who was born in Bosnia and now lives in Jacksonville said he's heartbroken seeing his home country suffering. He's lived in Jacksonville since 1996 but home is where the heart is.

“It's heartbreaking, it's sad. I've looked at the last few days and it's nothing that I have ever seen and I'm 30. I wish we could do something more to help them out over there. It's just really sad," said Hadzic.

Hadzic has a friend living in Bosnia now. He said he's has never seen anything like this.

Right now, the Serbia Red Cross, along with the Red Cross Society of Bosnia are helping out in the affected area with food, water and evacuation. Hundreds of people are taking to the American Red Cross's Facebook page asking it to help out.

"I watched today that a couple other countries have helped out already from Austria to other countries that have sent help already," said Hadzic.

He says there's a big Bosnian population here in Jacksonville.

"They're definitely affected, there's a lot of people here and all they can do is watch and hope it gets better," he said.

Copyright 2014 by News4Jax.com. The Associated Press contributed to this report. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed below are not those of News4Jax or its affiliated companies. By clicking on "Post," you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Service and your comment is in compliance with such terms. Readers, please help keep this discussion respectful and on topic by flagging comments that are offensive or inappropriate (hover over the commenter's name and you'll see the flag option appear on right side of that line). And remember, respect goes both ways: Tolerance of others' opinions is important in a free discourse. If you're easily offended by strong opinions, you might skip reading comments entirely.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
