
Florence — Those who love history will be interested in two special programs the John C. Fremont Library at 130 Church Ave. in Florence will be presenting the week of May 19.

Tuesday, Colorado author Richard Gibson will present a program titled, "A Celebration of State Capitols" at 7 p.m.  in the library.

"It's a Powerpoint slide presentation of all the state capitols, based on my book," Gibson said.

He shows one or two pictures of each  capitol, and gives historical accounts or things that happened while researching the material and things he encountered that are interesting or humorous.

"I involve the audience to a certain extent," Gibson said. "It's about an hour-long presentation."

He also talks about former capitols, which he calls retired capitols, as well as governors' mansions.

During his research, he worked with  historians in each state to relate the story of the capitol. In addition to modern pictures, he also depicts historical photos of the capitols in the 271-page book.

"It's a pretty comprehensive book and program," Gibson said.

On Thursday, genealogist and Rawlings Public Library special collections librarian, Charlene Garcia Simms,  will present  "Tearing Down  Silent Walls"   at 7 p.m. in the library.

"Women in general have been left out in history," she said. "Kit Carson was probably one of the better known frontiersman when you talk about the west. Kit Carson's name comes up all the time, but his wife, (Josefa Jaramillo Carson) barely comes up. Her name came up only once in Kit Carson's book."

A little more than two years ago, Simms received a grant to write a paper about Josefa. After putting it on a back burner for about a year, she recently began working on it again.

"Her family arrived in New Mexico in 1694," Simms said. "As I was doing the genealogy, I found out I was related to her (as) a distant cousin, so I'll be talking a little bit about her genealogy, and mine, and the fact (that) this woman has been left out of the history books."

She and Kit were married 25 years, but they only lived together about eight years because he was gone so much, Simms said.

"It's been real hard to find (things on her)," she said. "I find glimpses of her here and there.

The programs are free and open to the public. For more information, call  784-4649.
