
Biden, who is expected to be accompanied by a large delegation of bureaucrats, will hold separate meetings with President Nicos Anastasiades and Turkish Cypriot leader Dervis Eroglu.

U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is set to visit Cyprus later this week to participate in the ongoing negotiations for the reunification of the island.

The last time an American vice president visited the island was in 1962 when Lyndon B Johnson addressed the Cypriot parliament.

The trip, set for Wednesday and Thursday will mark Washington’s highest-level visit to the island in 52 years.

Biden, who is expected to be accompanied by a large delegation of bureaucrats, will hold separate meetings with President Nicos Anastasiades and Turkish Cypriot leader Dervis Eroglu.

However, prominent members of the Greek American community - as well as political parties in Cyprus -  have raised concerns over the announced contacts Biden is expected to have in the Turkish-occupied areas of Cyprus.

The semi-state news agency CNA quoted a ‘reliable source’ as saying the White House gave assurances that US diplomats and a member of the Vice Presidents official delegation will inspect the location where Biden and Eroglu will meet, to ensure that everything is as agreed.

Jake Sullivan, the national security advisor to Vice President  Biden is expected to meet with leading members of the Greek American community today in an effort to alleviate some of the concerns expressed by Greek Americans, as well as by Archbishop Demetrios of America, over Biden`s contacts at the Turkish-occupied areas of Cyprus.

Concerns have been further raised after the Turkish Cypriot leader Dervis Eroglu announced that Biden will be received at the so-called "Presidential Palace”.

"We will receive Mr. Biden at our guest hall. TRNC Presidency is the most relevant location anyway. Our flags will be flying in the grounds of the palace. We will of course receive Mr. Biden at the hall where we receive all our guests. We would not do it differently this time, " Turkish Cypriot media reported.
