
Share This Story!

Visitors to the Louisiana State Archives can view a collection of iconic Blue Dog artwork by acclaimed Louisiana artist George Rodrigue beginning Tuesday and running through June 30.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Visitors to the Louisiana State Archives can view a collection of iconic Blue Dog artwork by acclaimed Louisiana artist George Rodrigue beginning Tuesday and running through June 30.

Visitors to the Louisiana State Archives can view a collection of iconic Blue Dog artwork by acclaimed Louisiana artist George Rodrigue beginning Tuesday and running through June 30.

The six-week exhibit will include several original Rodrigue paintings.

“My family and I are excited to have the opportunity to display Dad’s work in Baton Rouge again,” Jacques Rodrigue, Executive Director of the George Rodrigue Foundation of the Arts, said. “Exhibits like this help further the arts in education initiatives of our foundation and we hope students in the area are able to take advantage of the chance to see original Rodrigue work.

As part of its outreach activities for the Blue Dog exhibit, the Archives will host a private event from 2-3 p.m. on May 29 for Miss USA, Miss Louisiana and several of the 2014 Miss USA contestants in cooperation with Visit Baton Rouge as a part of their pageant activities.

On May 29, the “Blue Dog Piano” will also be on display. The one-of-a-kind restored Steinway piano was used by Rodrigue as a canvas to generate interest for his George Rodrigue Foundation of the Arts.

Harold Mims, a Ph.D. student at Louisiana State University studying music composition and jazz studies has graciously agreed to play the Blue Dog Steinway for the Miss USA contestants. He is founder of HCM Music & Publishing and services clients as an arranger, composer, orchestrator, keyboardist, educator and producer. Additionally, LSU School of Music Brass students will also be performing during the ceremony.

The Louisiana State Archives is dedicated to identifying, collecting, preserving and maintaining records and artifacts that enhance our state’s remarkable history. It is located at 3851 Essen Lane in Baton Rouge. The Archives are open to the public from 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. on the first Saturday of each month.
