
SINGAPORE - Smaato, the leading global mobile Real-Time Bidding (RTB) ad exchange (SMX) and Supply Side Platform (SSP), today releases its first in a series of white papers intended to help mobile publishers create a successful monetization strategy for their apps or mobile websites on a global scale.

The new white paper commissioned by Smaato addresses key monetization challenges and the benefits of RTB in overcoming these obstacles. The whitepaper’s focus on these challenges will be in line with the panel, "Mobile: The Great Enabler, from Advertising to Voting," being held at the Future in Review (FiRe) conference on Wednesday, May 21, from 3:00pm - 3:30pm in Laguna Beach, CA and being led by Smaato’s co-founder and CEO, Ragnar Kruse; Everyone Counts’ founder and CEO, Lori Steele Contorer; and Crosscut.com editor and panel host Berit Anderson. Smaato will also be at APPNATION in New York City from May 20-21 to further discuss the new white paper.

The core competency of most mobile publishers is generally content or development rather than monetization and yield management, which leaves a successful monetization plan as a frustrating and time-consuming project. Additionally, the app economy works on a large, worldwide scale, with the major app stores operating globally and offering publishers a truly unique way to reach users almost anywhere. At the same time, this presents the challenge of finding a monetization partner that can efficiently service a planet-sized footprint.

RTB at its core provides a way for advertisers to determine the value of the user, as well as the audience they are attempting to reach, on an impression-by-impression basis. The ability to make this valuation in real time, in a competitive environment, means that publishers are able to maximize the value of each of those impressions.

Note: Campaign Asia-Pacific posts relevant press releases but does not edit them. They appear exactly as provided by the companies issuing them.

NOTE: You must be a registered member of CampaignAsia to post a comment.

Copyright © 2014 Haymarket Media Ltd . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorisation.

Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions .

Activate My Campaign and create a customised news feed by selecting the market, expertise and brands you’re interested in.
