
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 4:37 p.m.

Heart of Florida Health Center’s success in providing healthcare services at its newly opened Marion Oaks facility shows what center officials have known for a long time: A significant contingent of center patients come from the south and southwest parts of Marion County.

Just two months after opening the Marion Oaks clinic, Heart of Florida already is serving 120 patients per week — more than half the eventual weekly goal. Before the year is out, the non-profit organization, which serves low-income residents, predicts it will reach its goal of 200 patients per week.

The growing need for affordable healthcare is the reason for Heart of Florida’s expansion, Clark said.

In 2009, Heart of Florida had 17 staff members, including one medical doctor and one nurse practitioner, at one facility near downtown Ocala.

Today it has 87 staffers, including 17 doctors and nurse practitioners, spread over seven locations.

The newest location — a 3,500-square-foot facility at 100 Marion Oaks Boulevard — is staffed with one medical doctor and one nurse practitioner. Although it opened in March, the ribbon-cutting ceremony will be June 12.

Heart of Florida is also marking five years since it was authorized as a federally qualified health center. The designation allows the organization to receive federal grants and annual funding.

Heart of Florida’s budget this year is $7.4 million, of which $1.2 million is federal funding. Federal grants also paid the $650,000 opening costs for Marion Oaks. Heart of Florida leases that building.

This year, Heart of Florida will oversee an estimated 50,000 healthcare visits combined at its seven facilities.

In 2013, it had nearly 14,000 patients on file. That will grow to at least 20,000 patients this year because of Florida’s new Medicaid managed care strategy, which calls for all Medicaid patients to be placed on managed care plans. Heart of Florida will receive nearly 7,000 of those patients.

The Medicaid money “will help us get the job done,” Clark said.

To meet the new influx of patients, Clark said she is looking for more medical personnel to help.

Meanwhile, Clark said she continues to work with Munroe Regional Medical Center, which in the past has awarded Heart of Florida $400,000 annually. That money was to help treat patients who otherwise would visit an emergency room because they had no primary care physician.

Munroe is now being leased and operated by healthcare conglomerate Community Healthcare Systems. In the past, Heart of Florida has used that Munroe money to draw down an additional $1.1 million from the Florida Legislature.

“I will continue to ask for it, and I feel confident because of our relationship with Munroe,” Clark said.
