
Dean Jones, left, and Kevin Corbett attended the May 16-18, 2014, Beijing Luxury Property Show. Jones leads the Seattle-area offices of Sotheby's International Realty, and Corbett is CEO of Sotheby's International Beijing office. Corbett is also the U.S. contact for Plus Investment USA, which earlier this year paid $30 million for a large property in downtown Bellevue.

How's this for a college graduation present? A Chinese national is helping his child — a recent graduate from the University of Washington — buy a more than $8 million house on Seattle's Eastside.

This is according to Dean Jones , whose company, Realogics Sotheby's International Realty , is opening an Asia Desk at its showroom in Kirkland. Mandarin-speaking sales agents will staff the desk.

It's impossible to say how many Chinese nationals are buying homes in the Seattle area. "The demand is significant, but the solution is specialized," said Jones, who returned to Seattle Monday from China, where he attended the Beijing Luxury Property Show.

Sotheby's International Realty has an office in Beijing, and Jones said the head of the office is Kevin Corbett , the Seattle-area contact for Plus Investment USA, which paid $30 million for the First Congregational Church's property in downtown Bellevue in January. Jones said that Corbett gave a speech at the Beijing property show.

In addition, Beijing Sotheby's International named Jones its director of network development for the United States. He will work with Beijing-based employees to "cultivate referral networks" throughout the U.S, according to a press release from the company.

Realtors are focusing more attention on China, where there are 643,000 millionaires, with that number growing 14 percent a year, according to Juwai.com, a Chinese international real estate website. Last month, Luxury Portfolio International of Chicago agreed to market its listings to Chinese buyers via Juwai.com.

Interest among Chinese buyers in Seattle-area real estate is strong due to political and cultural ties. In China, former Washington Gov. Gary Locke , the first Chinese-American governor in the United States, is akin to a rock star. He recently returned to Seattle after serving as ambassador to China.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Puget Sound Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
