
Jacksonville resident Georgie Smith received a letter from the Veterans Affairs office last week offering her condolences on the death of her husband, Vietnam veteran Steve Smith.

The problem was her husband is very much alive.

“How in the heck could they pronounce you dead when you are still alive?” Steve Smith wants to know.

The VA office has been under fire lately for problems with its hospital and the way it handles benefits.

The Smiths got a firsthand glimpse of those issues when Georgie received a letter extending her sympathy on the death of her husband. The letter contained a check and an explanation that the monthly benefit checks the Smiths rely on would stop.

VA: “How can I help you?"

Smith: “Evidently you all declared me dead, because I got this letter."

Smith collects a benefits check each month for problems he encountered from serving in Vietnam. Channel 4 has been checking with the VA and officials said they are researching the death mix-up and trying to make sure the Smiths' checks will keep coming.

Smith said after he called, the VA office staff did some more checking. They looked at his records and asked him more questions.

VA officials told Channel 4 they are also trying to find out why the agency thought Smith was dead in the first place.

Smith said they gave him an answer, but it's not one he's really happy with.

Copyright 2014 by News4Jax.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed below are not those of News4Jax or its affiliated companies. By clicking on "Post," you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Service and your comment is in compliance with such terms. Readers, please help keep this discussion respectful and on topic by flagging comments that are offensive or inappropriate (hover over the commenter's name and you'll see the flag option appear on right side of that line). And remember, respect goes both ways: Tolerance of others' opinions is important in a free discourse. If you're easily offended by strong opinions, you might skip reading comments entirely.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
