
The US government has charged five hackers, all members of China's People's Liberation Army, with stealing trade secrets. It's the first indictment of its kind, and the most pointed accusation yet that the Chinese government is using espionage to undermine American business interests.

"These represent the first ever charges against known state actors for infiltrating US commercial targets by cyber means," Attorney General Eric Holder said at a press conference today. The five hackers, who the FBI has traced to "one building in one block in one city in China," according to US Attorney David Hickton, have been indicted with committing cyber espionage, and stealing the secrets of five American companies and one labor union.

During the morning press conference, leaders at the Department of Justice and the FBI detailed the findings of a years-long investigation into the PLA unit 61398 , which federal agents determined is responsible for a very specific series of hacks. The DOJ alleges that the hacks were often made at key times during trade negotiations or disputes, and often directly for the benefit of Chinese-owned corporations.

The hackers didn't just go after stark competitors, either—sometimes they targeted business partners, too.

The Shanghai building Unit 61398 is housed in, courtesy of Google Maps and Cryptome .

It's a strange but predictable distinction to draw—spying for diplomatic or military advantage is fine, yet corporate espionage is beyond the pale—but it highlights, perhaps, why the FBI and the DOJ didn't pursue hackers who pilfered drone technology or other military secrets. Perhaps that's just a bit to close to the kind of activity the NSA excels at.

Regardless, it's unclear what the impact of these charges will actually be. None of the DOJ or FBI officials said that there were any plans to extradite the accused hackers, and it seems unlikely that they would travel to the US to give themselves up, as Holder said he would like them to do.

"Our intention is for the defendants to have due process in an American court of law. That is our intention," he said. "It is our hope to have these people stand before an American jury."

Again, that seems unlikely. It may be that the public indictment was aimed at discouraging foreign hackers from such brazen espionage.

"We have repeatedly pledged we will do more to hold those accountable who engage in these actions," Carlin said. "Today we begin to fulfill that pledge."
