
Milford, NH --( Ammoland.com )- Apparently a former Massachusetts resident has yet to realize that here in New Hampshire we actually love our firearms.

We have a long and proud tradition of protecting our values, and can be downright stubborn and patriotic about protecting those things that we hold near and dear.

Our neighbors to the south tend to be ravenously anti-gun. Their values change depending upon which way the political breeze is blowing. But here in New Hampshire, we tend to expect our candidates to have principles and a backbone to stand for those stated values. Unlike the Gun Grabbers who flourish in Massachusetts, we only support those who will fight once in office to protect our civil rights.

What we have found interesting in this year’s battle for the US Senate seat is three of the four declared candidates are out there in front of the cameras and willing to be put on record for their support for the rights of citizens to own firearms. However, there is one candidate who is constantly avoiding being recorded, has the blandest of comments regarding the 2nd amendment on the issues section and is constantly dodging questions on where he stands.

Amendment number two of the Bill of Rights says it all very clearly.

What part of this language do the liberals not understand? It means we have the right to own guns, Period!

It means that if the citizenry does not have personal access to weapons to defend themselves, then they cannot form a militia to defend their nation. Even worse, suppose the Government did not let you have those weapons? Take their guns and you take away the means to protect their liberties.

The liberals are constantly throwing gun control legislation at us. We are always amazed that they pick out certain parts of the Bill of Rights, like freedom of the press, and support it unequivocally. Yet the second amendment does not merit a similar defense! Is the First Amendment any more constitutional than the Second? We do not find any evidence of that when I read the Founders!

For eighteen years in Congress I fought the gun grabbers. If elected, I will be proud to pick up the gauntlet again. For each and every year of my entire congressional career, I received a 100% rating from the National Rifle Association and the Gun Owners of America .

I was the unchallenged leader in the Senate in defense of the rights of gun owners and I cannot wait to go back and give the liberals fits again on this issue. If you want a proven champion to protect your second amendment rights, I am your candidate!

We believe that if you can’t or won’t be strong on the 2nd amendment during campaign season, there is no chance that you will be fighting for our rights when you are elected. “Soft and Squishy” candidates like Brown leave us concerned that he will trample over our values as soon as the last ballot is counted.

Another occurrence was here, where he refused to attend a primary event that included all candidates and all of the other candidates committed to attending. Brown was so pompous that he did not even respond to the registered mail that was sent to his office.

It is easy to say that you support the 2nd amendment.

We really wonder about the sincerity of Brown’s alleged change of heart, when he continues to enforce his no-video-allowed policy at events.

Lastly, while we are not officially sponsoring either of the events below, we felt that it was of value to our members to know about them. GONH has invited all candidates to their members meeting and Brown has committed to going. It has also come to our attention that Brown has already requested that no video-cameras be allowed at this event.

As a response to Browns no camera policy, Rep. Hoell has committed to staging a protest the same night just across the street. (Details below on when and where he has committed to show up). Rep. Hoell believes that we should never compromise on this issue and is willing to hold another Republican that is wrong accountable.

We believe that candidates need to be publicly on record for their views on all issues and we will continue to press for that. Until then, we would encourage you to go to the protest as there will be free bumper stickers and a firearm that is being raffled off.

Public announcement of Brown going to Gun Owners of New Hampshire in Concord on May 20th.

SCOTT BROWN HAS CONFIRMED HE WILL BE ATTENDING THE NEXT GUN OWNERS OF NEW HAMPSHIRE MEETING TO DISCUSS HIS POSITION ON FIREARMS, AS WELL AS TO ADDRESS OUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS REGARDING HIS RUN FOR US SENATE….

Board of Directors.

P.S. The New Hampshire Firearms Coalition is working tirelessly to keep gun owners like you up-to-date on as many gun issues as possible — please consider contributing to the effort by chipping in $15 or $20.

Scott Brown is a carpetbagger.  He “moved” to NH from MA just to establish residency to run for office.  Why?? Because he was rejected by MA voters.  Reminds me of Benedict Arnold who as we all know was a traitor to America and changed sides for personal gain.

Anyway Scott Brown has NEVER been a supporter of the 2nd Amendment and is a person who can not be trusted to support the US Constitution. Maybe his new name should be Scott “Benedict Arnold” Brown.

Janek : It seems Councilman Constantinides had an epiphany.
