
 » What: Bristol, Tenn., City Council is hosting a town hall meeting to discuss the fiscal year 2015 spending plan.

 » When: May 27, 6 p.m.

 » Where: Slater Community Center at 325 McDowell St.

Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:31 pm | Updated: 12:33 am, Wed May 21, 2014.

BRISTOL, Tenn. — City Council is giving residents access to the budget process by hosting its first town hall meeting to discuss the fiscal year 2015 spending plan approved on first reading last week.

The gathering is scheduled for Tuesday, May 27, at the Slater Community Center at 325 McDowell St. in the council meeting chambers beginning at 6 p.m. and residents can also view the broadcast of the session on BTN-TV channel 16, according to a news release issued by the Department of Community Relations.

“We hope it gives our community a better understanding of where their resources that come from a variety of sources are spent and how the city delivers municipal services. We hope it will better educate them on the various components of our budget,” City Manager Bill Sorah said.

The budget totals $98.3 million and was passed on first reading during the council’s regular meeting on May 6. It includes a 1.6 percent cost-of-living increase for city employees, keeps the city property tax rate at $2.25 per $100 of assessed value and is a decrease of $7.9 million from last year, Sorah reported.

The municipal government portion of the budget is projected to be $54.5 million and funding for the city’s school system will increase by almost $120,000 with a budget of $40.7 million, the release states.

The reduced budget, according to the city manager, is reflected by a majority of public infrastructure funded by the city being completed on properties in and around The Pinnacle retail development at Exit 74 of Interstate 81. Those city commitments included paving work, sidewalks, and water and sewer lines.

Mayor Michelle Dolan said all of the department heads were commended after they were able to “cut a lot of fat” out of their budgets without seeing a reduction in services. She said that was essential to getting a balanced plan for city spending.

“Transparency is important in developing trust and I think citizens can appreciate what we’ve done with the budget,” the mayor said.

“In our guidelines, we are not to rely on property tax increases [to help with the budget] and instead find other sources of revenue. Instead of increasing taxes in a city where the population and the businesses were shrinking, we decided to reduce the size of government.

Sorah also said the budget includes an increase in solid waste services fees to $1 for city customers.

Posted in News , Local on Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:31 pm. Updated: 12:33 am.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
