
An Illinois man tested positive for MERS , or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, making him the first individual to contract the virus on U.S. soil, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported on Saturday. The state's public health department confirmed Monday, after a second test, that the MERS-infected Illinois individual is not contagious and has no ability to spread the virus.

The individual contracted the virus during two meetings with an Indiana man, who had the first case of MERS confirmed in the United States . The Indiana patient picked up the disease while traveling in Saudi Arabia, the country where MERS is most prevalent.

The Illinois patient has never fallen ill, the CDC reported, so he is not considered an active case of MERS. Similarly, two Florida healthcare workers were reported to have signs of the disease, after contact with a Florida MERS patient.

The Illinois man was given multiple blood tests for the disease after the CDC learned of his exposure to Indiana's confirmed MERS patient. Although this indicates the disease can spread person to person, it does not represent an imminent threat, Jennifer Layden, M.D., an infectious disease expert at the Loyola University Health System, told weather.com. “It can be transmitted from individual to individual, but doesn’t seem to have a widespread or global spread [threat],” she said.

Previously, the virus has mainly spread from camels to humans; the animals are believed to be the virus's main reservoir. It has only been transmitted from person to person to healthcare settings, or when individuals had prolonged close contact. This is what separates MERS from SARS , a related coronavirus that killed nearly 800 people in the early 2000s, thanks in part to its highly contagious nature.

Recently, however, MERS has spread to Europe as well. The Netherlands has reported two confirmed cases, close family members who recently traveled to Saudi Arabia. Globally, 614 laboratory-confirmed cases of infection with MERS-CoV have officially been reported, with 181 deaths, according to the World Health Organization.

Sea Turtle the Size Of a Car!
