
in front of the Los Angeles VA during a past protest rally.

LOS ANGELES -  When the American Flag is displayed upside down, it is an internationally recognized symbol of distress notifying the public that “life and property are in extreme danger.” This is not disrespectful to our Flag as it is in full compliance with Section 8 (a) of the United States Flag Code.

Make no mistake, life and property are in extreme danger at the Los Angeles VA where Federal land has been illegally leased to non-Veteran entities for non-Veteran use, and at the peril of tens of thousands of war-injured and impoverished Veterans who have been forced to live homeless and hungry on the dangerous streets of Los Angeles.

The Los Angeles VA is the most corrupt in the nation under Donna Beiter’s misconduct, malfeasacne and mismanagement,. She has two Federal Judgments entered against her, one for violating a Veteran’s Constitutional Right to Free Speech and the other for illegal use of Federal VA property.

This is also the largest VA in the nation and Los Angeles County is our nation’s capital for homeless Veterans.

To make matters worse, Secretary Shinseki has boasted that he will end Veteran homelessness by next year, yet he Appealed the Federal Judgment that would have opened the unique opportunity to build new housing on VA property, which would greatly diminish the homeless Veteran population in Los Angeles.

Without question, Secretary Shinseki’s selfish Appeal of the iron-clad Judgment is morally and legally indefensible.

Moreover, the Secretary’s unwarranted Appeal is an added burden to the American Taxpayer and it shamefully prolongs the misery and suffering of tens of thousands of disabled and needy Veterans who are forced to live homeless and hungry on the dangerous streets of Los Angeles.

The foregoing notwithstanding, Daniel M. Dellinger, the National Commander of the American Legion has called for the resignation of VA Secretary Shinseki, not because of the Federal Judgment, but because of serious allegations of misconduct and criminal activity at the Phoenix VA and others regarding “wait lists” that could have resulted in the possible deaths of hundreds of Veterans.

To him, “appropriate action” is whatever it takes to protect his okole at the expense of others.

Meanwhile, during the recent Senate Hearing regarding Secretary Shinseki’s failed leadership and incompetence, Commander Dellinger complained vociferously about virtually every VA in the nation but was conspicuously silent about the Los Angeles VA.

More than five months ago, Vietnam War Veteran Gil Flores, Adjutant for American Legion District 29, Orange County, CA, wrote a letter to Commander Dellinger at the behest of District 29 that encompasses 26 Legion Posts with over 8,000 members.

The December 8, 2013 letter signed by District 29 Commander Oliver Taylor and Adjutant Flores, was hand-delivered to Commander Dellinger at an American Legion meeting held in Newport Beach, CA.

outside the Los Angeles VA supporting the Federal Judgment against VA Secretary Shinseki and protesting the Appeal of the Judgment.

Five months later and nary a peep from the normally outspoken National Commander regarding the Federal Judgment against Secretary Shinseki and his Department’s shameful Appeal of it.

How hard is it to announce that either you support or oppose the Judgment and the Appeal?  To remain silent for five months regarding such a basic request on such an important matter from leaders in one of the most respected American Legion Districts in California, is unforgivable.

legal Distress Call that life and property at the Los Angeles VA are in extreme danger.

Regardless of Commander Dellinger’s disappointing silence, this is a Distress Call for the American Legion’s esteemed national leader to stand up and speak out for our war-injured and deprived Veterans in Los Angeles whose lives are in extreme danger, as is the property that was exclusively deeded on their behalf in 1888 as a National Home for Disabled Veterans.

While Commander Delligner’s request that Secretary Shinseki resign over allegations of misconduct at the Phoenix VA was commendable, now he needs to demand that President Obama fire him over adjudicated misconduct at the Los Angeles VA.

God Bless America and the Veterans Revolution!

Dear Commander Dellinger,

First, I would like to extend a sincere welcome to you on behalf of AL District 29 and its 26 Legion Posts. We hope you will have a fruitful and productive visit here in Orange County, CA.

Secondly, I would like to inform you of a major issue regarding the West Los Angeles Veterans Home which is seriously impacting our homeless and disabled Veterans in Southern California. The issue has to do with the granting of unlawful leases, and the giving away of valuable Veterans land at the Los Angeles National Veterans Home, aka VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System on Wilshire Blvd., near Brentwood, CA.

A U.S. District Judge recently entered a Federal Judgment against VA Secretary Eric Shinseki and his Los Angeles executive director, Donna Beiter, for entering into nine “Enhanced Sharing Agreements” (ESA) that are “unauthorized by law, and therefore void.” None of these nine entities are health-related nor do they benefit our disabled and homeless Veterans. (Please see the attached Federal Judgment including the nine non-Veteran entities that have been occupying land deeded exclusively for Veterans housing and care in 1888).

In essence, the Court ruled that the aforementioned leases were unlawful in that they did not benefit Veterans, present and future.

For five and one half years, a group of Veterans calling themselves the “Old Veterans Guard” have kept a vigil outside the Home for 296 consecutive Sundays. The purpose of this gathering is to call attention to what has been going on at the Home, with the major objective being to remove the non-Veteran ESA’s and to keep the Home for Veterans use only.  Needless to say, we were gratified and happy with the Federal Court’s Ruling.

To us, this is an outrage and we are calling for the American Legion’s support in our battle to save the Home. To date, only two major VSOs—the Vietnam Veterans of American and the American G.I. Forum have stepped up to the plate in supporting the Veterans impacted by the illegal ESA’s at the National Home.

In brief, major VSOs such as the Legion and the VFW have been silent and out of the picture in this ongoing issue. To say that this is a major disappointment for the Veterans involved in this battle would be an understatement.

Accordingly, on behalf of AL District 29 and our disabled and homeless Veterans who have no voice except from the advocates, I am calling for yours and the Legion’s support to help us in the critical issue.

Dismissing the VA’s unwarranted Appeal and the immediate removal of all nine illegal occupants is paramount to ensure that tens of thousands of disable and homeless in Southern California will always have a safe place to heal from their war injuries, now and in the future.

Respectfully submitted,

0 Reads,                        Filed under Editor , Vet News .      You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 .           Both comments and pings are currently closed.

To post, we ask that you login using Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, or Hotmail in the box below.

Don't have a social network account? Register and Login direct with VT and post.

Thanks vet Rosebrock and the rest who are fighting.

Shinseki seems pretty clearly a disgrace to his Japanese heritage which for the most part stresses discipline, hard work, and honesty..

I bet Vietnam doesn’t mean s— to him and his ilk.

It is too bad that he values money deals before any betterment of vets- maybe he think veterans are a bunch of freeloaders and dumbbells, and even if he does he still pulled illegal real estate deals.

We have Phoenix VA in the national news .  Still no response from the Am Legion and VFW on LA Home but these service organizations play ball with the powers to be.

For years the VA has had to work with the active duty military and there was so much dereliction of duty by Army medical officers as well as contractors as the Army shirked its duties by dumping almost all the work on the VA.

There were some terrible things going on in 2007-08 and that is the last I kept up with it.

There was no accountability at Army bases just as there was no accountability in Phoenix. When those government employees are asked to account for things they just make up a totally phony story which is never checked so the bad actions just continue. The US government continues paying all these deadbeats who are not doing much. The only way to deal with out and out lying crooks is to fine them a big sum of money and put them in jail.

A review should be done by nongovernment employees because the government covers its actions by threatenting any government investigators.

This “investigation” is but a gathering of informational resources starting with making appointments, which is just where the new affordable healthcare system needs to start.

Using the guise of helping disabled veterans which brings with the support of every candidate in an election year, well, when the merge takes place it should run rather smoothly now. In fact, you will see a huge number of older white executives dismissed, and then many younger affirmative action grads appointed as the new executives.

The only change will be name plates on the doors, parking spaces, and the paychecks.

You are correct. Nothin gonna change. Have to get rid of most of the govmit and it will not happen. Gotta keep them bonus’ moving along to all the good folks runnin the VA. Us old grunts know what to expect. Who are we to complain. The pretty boys and girls in the pretty clothes gotta have their money.

Any vet thinking their welfare is a U.S. government priority is wrong. Not complicated at all.

Yes, Very Happy!
