
NASHVILLE — The state wants to give its Donnelley J. Hill State Office Building on Civic Center Plaza Downtown to the city of Memphis in exchange for 400 parking spaces at Peabody Place.

The state is leaving the 12-story Hill Building, which opened in 1968 at the corner of Poplar and North Main, and moving seven blocks south into newly leased space at One Commerce Square formerly occupied by Pinnacle Airlines . The move of 596 state employees who work for nine different state agencies is scheduled to start June 1.

For months after the state announced in 2012 that it was vacating the Hill Building, state officials said they weren't sure what they would do with the modern-looking concrete and glass mid-rise that has occasionally housed the Memphis office of governors. It didn't help the state's marketing efforts that the building was pronounced "functionally obsolete" by its commercial real estate consultants, Jones Lang LaSalle, in a study of state-owned structures that led to the decision to vacate Hill and five other buildings in Nashville, Chattanooga and Knoxville. The private contractor said it would cost more to renovate than it's worth.

The state Department of General Services told the State Building Commission last September that the 194,900-square-foot building had $18.4 million in deferred maintenance costs while its market value was estimated at between $1.2 million and $2.2 million.

But its proximity to City Hall meant local officials were always interested, especially if the city didn't have to pay much, if anything, for it. Memphis Chief Administrative Officer George Little said last September the city was studying whether to move some of its agencies now scattered around the city into the Hill Building, with "due diligence" on its renovation and operating costs.

The proposed transfer of the building's ownership was delayed on the Building Commission's agenda Monday because negotiations are continuing with the city. But the tentative deal listed on the agenda said the state would "convey the building with a value of $2.2 million to the City (in exchange) for the use of 400 parking spaces at 280 Peabody Place garage for 15 years.

"Should the garage not be available due to certain development within a three-block radius, the City of Memphis and the Parking Authority will commit to providing adequate parking for 400 spaces within a defined radius acceptable to the state," according to the agenda. And should the conveyance not occur or be delayed, the city and the parking authority would agree to lease 400 parking spaces at 250 Peabody Place to the state at $40 per space per month for 15 years with the cost escalated annually.

A city spokesman wouldn't make city officials available for comment on the topic Monday, saying that would come after the City Council is briefed on the potential deal Tuesday. A "proposed adaptive re-use" of the building is on the council's agenda for its afternoon executive session.

Staff reporter Kyle Veazey contributed to this story.

Ready to subscribe to The Commercial Appeal? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-789-0831.
