
Montana’s fishing season is just getting started, and after a heavy winter, our rivers and streams look to be in great shape for the coming summer season.

Already, area guides and outfitters are booking up for the coming months, and area fly shops and retailers are busy selling gear. Thanks to some common-sense guidance from the Environmental Protection Agency and United States Department of Agriculture, we’ll be assured of catching healthy fish in clean rivers protected from pollution.

Over the last few years, the U.S. Supreme Court has issued a few rulings that make it unclear as to the safety of our drinking water supplies, wetlands and headwaters streams. Knowing they needed to clear things up and provide certainty for farmers, the EPA and USDA last month posted the draft “Waters of the U.S.” rule for public comment. When final, the rule will maintain exemptions for regular farming activities while re-establishing Clean Water Act protections for the wetlands and streams that provide drinking water for 1 in 3 Americans downstream.

As a bonus for sportsmen and anglers, these same streams provide critical habitat for trout and other fish, thereby helping to sustain my business and many others throughout Montana.

Founded in 1999, Montana-based Yellow Dog Flyfishing Adventures books and arranges guided fishing trips throughout Montana, Idaho, Alaska, Oregon, Idaho and the world. We support efforts to protect and preserve gamefish and the wild places where fish live because this company and our way of life depend on it. And when it comes to the economics of sportfishing, outfitting and outdoor recreation, we’re not the only ones.

Annual retail sales in Montana that are directly related to sportfishing exceed $350 million. Sportfishing also generates more than $36,895,000 in state and local tax revenue and is responsible for more than 5,000 Montanan jobs. Outdoor recreation as a whole generates $5.8 billion in consumer spending in the state of Montana each year and is directly tied to 64,000 Montana jobs.

As a businessman, I see the value of this clean water rule to my bottom line. When you take into account the importance of sportfishing and outdoor recreation to Montana’s economy, I am guessing that there are a lot of others that would agree. I support the proposed Waters of the U.S. rule, and urge U.S. Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont., and Sen. John Walsh,

D-Mont., and Rep. Steve Daines, R-Mont., to do so as well. All policy makers should.

It’s easy to take Montana’s pristine waters for granted, but we must heed cautionary tales from elsewhere in the country. Charleston, West Virginia, is still cleaning up after a toxic spill a few months ago that polluted the Elk River and the state capitol’s drinking water. The cost to small businesses, municipalities, wildlife habitat and families is still being tabulated.

Here in Montana, at the urging of Tester and former Sen. Max Baucus, who voiced concerns for our drinking water, the EPA is studying the risk of contamination from the shuttered Columbia Falls Aluminum Company plant.

These are repeated warnings to all of us of the fragility of our headwaters streams and drinking water supplies. And good reasons to safeguard them. The public comment period for this clean water rule extends through the end of July, allowing sufficient time for sportsmen, small business owners and others who care about keeping drinking water and wildlife habitat free from pollution to share their support.

Jim Klug of Bozeman is founder and director of operations for Yellow Dog Flyfishing Adventures, and is a member of the board of directors for the American Fly Fishing Trade Association.

Copyright 2014 missoulian.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Commentary and photos submitted to the Missoulian (Missoulian.com)  may be published or distributed in print, electronically or other forms.  Opinions expressed in Missoulian.com's comments reflect the opinions of the  author, and are not necessarily the opinions of the Missoulian or its parent  company. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for more information.

Our guidelines prohibit the solicitation of products or  services, the impersonation of another site user, threatening or harassing  postings and the use of vulgar, abusive, obscene or sexually oriented language,  defamatory or illegal material. You may not post content that degrades others  on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion,  sexual orientation, disability or other classification. It's fine to criticize  ideas, but ad hominem attacks on other site users are prohibited. Users who  violate those standards may lose their privileges on missoulian.com .

No short policy such as this can spell out all possible  instances of material or behavior that we might deem to be a violation of our  publishing standards, and we reserve the right to remove any material posted to  the site.

Username & Password Required!
