
Patrick Sisk (left) and Kerry Underwood are two of the owners and operators of Five Mile Mountain Distillery, which they hope to open in mid-July in Floyd.

Sisk and Underwood are building a deck at “the old water works building” in Floyd.

Sisk stands next to wood oak barrels in what will eventually be the showroom and reception area.

Moonshine is being made in Floyd.

Maybe that’s not breaking news. Moonshine has been made in Floyd — and just about everywhere else in Virginia — since any local can remember. But the still is looking a lot different these days.

Floyd’s newest distillery isn’t hidden on a country dirt road or operated only during the dead of night. Five Mile Mountain Distillery is on U.S. 221, just a stone’s throw from Slaughter’s neighborhood grocery store and in full view of the town’s main thoroughfare.

And unlike many the distilleries that came before it, Five Mile Mountain is going through all the state and federal licensing and permitting processes to make it a legal outlet for fans to taste and purchase homemade Virginia moonshine.

Now that the distillery is in its final stages of construction, its four owners are coming up with different flavors of shine and are putting the finishing touches on what was a dilapidated, but historic, building.

“It legitimizes what has been illegal for a long time,” said co-owner and operator Kerry Underwood.

Underwood is well-known in town. He and his wife, Julie Arrington, own Floyd staples Oddfellas Cantina and Republic of Floyd Emporium, and both come from families with deep Southwest Virginia roots.

For years, Underwood watched the former Public Service Authority building decay on its Floyd Highway hillside. It was built in 1947 but hadn’t been used since 1976. Referred to by the locals as “the old water works building,” it had been covered by greenery from the surrounding woods and reduced to squalor.

Not wanting to see a historic Floyd building knocked down, Underwood purchased it at an auction in September 2013. By then, he knew exactly what he wanted to do with it.

Underwood had previously met Patrick Sisk and his fiance, Jessica Taylor, who’d expressed interest in opening a distillery. Sisk’s grandfather was a longtime moonshine runner, and he’d always taken an interest in the craft of distilling liquor and brewing beer.

Sisk came to Floyd after going to college at Virginia Tech. Instead of returning to his family’s home in Northern Virginia, Sisk said he migrated out to Floyd County.

“I love the slower pace here,” he said.

The foursome decided to collaborate to open a distillery, but renovating the water works building was no easy task. Sisk, who spent six years in the construction business, has done much of the handiwork himself, keeping the budget small for a building of its size and condition.

Underwood and Sisk said when they first went into the building, several feet of black water and a layer of sludge covered the floor. They saw everything from snakes to bats to unknown animal skulls littering the building.

“Most people couldn’t even believe we went in there,” Underwood said. But after a year, the space has been cleaned out. Now an open deck makes for the entryway into what will be the tasting room.

It’s a cozy space that will have a working fireplace and a couple of aged wine barrels to use as tables, as well as outdoor seating.

The bottom floor will be home to a 100-gallon copper still, where the white liquor will be made over an open flame. While a lot of modern moonshine brands have a comparatively low alcohol content, Underwood and Sisk, who are federally licensed to make the liquor, said they will keep their moonshine around 80 proof to 100 proof.

“We want to keep it as traditional as possible,” Sisk said. They said they want to keep the place from being too “touristy” and give people an original homegrown product.

They are already licensed to make an elderberry moonshine, which is 80 proof but still maintains its fruity taste. Underwood said he wants to make moonshine that can be used with mixers like other forms of spirits.

Making legal forms of moonshine in Virginia has been going on since 1934. Five Mile Mountain already has received its federal license and is awaiting approval from the Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. The state licensing process for a moonshine distillery is similar to that for making other forms of liquor, so it’s not uncommon for a distillery to make multiple kinds of spirits.

While illegal moonshine is still a problem in the state — earlier this month Virginia ABC charged several people with making illegal liquor in Wise County — the legal moonshine business has been booming.

Moonshine sales in ABC stores rose 107 percent in 2013 (to more than 24,000 cases) and 153 percent in 2012, according to numbers provided by Virginia ABC.

There are 24 licensed distilleries in Virginia that make various liquors, including moonshine. One of the nearest moonshine producers is Appalachian Mountain Spirits, which opened in Marion last summer.

Virginia ABC spokeswoman Kathleen Shaw said the sales numbers show a growing trend in the legal production of moonshine in the state.

The owners of Five Mile Mountain plan to produce about six moonshine flavors, and they will bottle them and sell them on site as long as all the permits go through.

Eventually they may add more stills and begin to make other forms of liquor, such as brandy. One of the benefits of beginning with moonshine is the ability to put it on the shelves as soon as it is brewed. White liquor doesn’t have to age to be served.

There is also the historic place that moonshine holds in Floyd and surrounding counties.

“Every state in the country has its moonshine capital,” Sisk said.

In Virginia, he conceded that Franklin County has always been the mother of moonshine making. But Sisk said a great deal of bathtub gin was made in Floyd as well.

Roddy Moore, the director of the Blue Ridge Institute at Ferrum College, said Franklin County had the benefit of good roads and a widely used railroad system that allowed moonshine in and out with relative ease to neighboring parts of the state, including Floyd.

The name Five Mile Mountain is a nod to one of Floyd’s best-known moonshine runs. Five Mile and Shooting Creek were two of the routes whiskey makers used to distribute their wares to Franklin County, Sisk and Underwood said.

In those days, moonshining was a path out of poverty and a cheap way to get a drink. In places like Floyd, he said, moonshine was most often made for consumption by the moonshiners, their families and the neighboring communities.

When Underwood made plans to put the distillery just a mile outside of town, he expected to hear some push back from disapproving residents. Yet he said he has heard none.

The owners have invested about $70,000 into the distillery so far, with the most expensive renovations already completed. They are hoping to open in mid-July but still have to paint and lay down a new floor.

He said the plan is to have it open six days a week.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 8:00 am.

Fill out the form, attach a photo and send it in.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
