
The recurring motif of the 2014 Georgia Republican Senate primary has been babies.

We're not talking cute babies, either. Not adorable, gurgling, smiling, optimistic babies, the kind you want to pick up and cuddle. Instead, the candidates and the special interests that support them have spent millions of dollars depicting each other as whining, crying, keep-you-up-all-night, it's-not-my-turn-it's-your-turn-to-change-his-diaper babies.

Color me convinced.

"My opponents are all a bunch of babies."

"No I'm not, you are!"

"Nuh uh, you are!"

From what I've seen, those debates have consisted of trying to identify one quoted phrase, one biographical detail, one vote, that might be twisted into evidence of a candidate's deviation from Republican dogma and then magnified all out of proportion as a betrayal of the tribe.  They haven't been debates, they've been heresy trials.

The result is a field of five major candidates with no discernable difference on ObamaCare, abortion, taxes, spending, immigration, gun control, the economy. The babies are identical -- the Peach State Quintuplets -- which I guess is why they have to wear labels with their names printed on them, just so we can tell them apart.

But this is serious business. When you have a party that tolerates no deviation from the accepted line, when even the expression of a slight doubt is enough to get you voted off Baby Island, where does innovation and adaptation occur? How does the party begin to adjust its message and policies to a changing demographic? Evolution requires at least a degree of genetic variation, and when there is no variation, there can be no adaptation. "Survival of the fittest" is transformed into survival of those least likely to innovate. It can work in the short term, for certain individuals, but not in the long term for the larger movement.

Now, given the subject matter, maybe an argument based on evolution isn't the most convincing approach. It might be better to borrow a metaphor from the business world, pointing out what happens to companies that lose the ability to innovate and that see innovation itself as a threat to their brands.

Send Jay Bookman an email .

Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
