
The United States on Monday charged five members of a shadowy Chinese military unit for allegedly hacking US companies for trade secrets, infuriating Beijing which suspended co-operation on cyber issues. Hacking has long been a major sticking point in relations between the world's two largest economies, but Washington's move marked a major escalation in the dispute.

In the first-ever prosecution of state actors over cyber-espionage, a federal grand jury indicted the five on charges they broke into US computers to benefit Chinese state-owned companies, leading to job losses in the United States in steel, solar and other industries. Attorney General Eric Holder called on China to hand over the five men for trial in the steel city of Pittsburgh and said the United States would use "all the means that are available to us" should Beijing refuse. President Barack Obama's administration "will not tolerate actions by any nation that seek to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition," Holder told reporters.

"This case should serve as a wake-up call to the seriousness of the ongoing cyber threat," Holder told reporters. The grand jury indicted each of the five -Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui - on 31 counts, which each carry penalties of up to 15 years in prison.

Prosecutors said that the five officers belonged to Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army. A report last year by security firm Mandiant said that the unit had thousands of workers operating out of a non-descript, 12-story building on the outskirts of Shanghai where they pilfer intellectual property and government secrets.

China swiftly responded, calling the US indictment "ungrounded and absurd" and saying it "grossly violates the basic norms governing international relations and jeopardises China-US co-operation and mutual trust." "Given the lack of sincerity on the part of the US to solve issues related to cyber security through dialogue and co-operation, China has decided to suspend activities of the China-US Cyber Working Group," foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement.

The working group was set up last year during a visit to Beijing by US Secretary of State John Kerry as a way to talk through rising tensions on cyber-security. The group met in July in Washington. Obama has directly raised hacking concerns with Chinese President Xi Jinping, making it a major priority despite the wide range of issues confronting the two powers, from North Korea to climate change to Beijing's tensions with its neighbours. China has in the past accused the United States of hypocrisy as Washington conducts sweeping surveillance around the world.
