
She is a survivor.

When she was 19, Lewis was abducted in the Washington, D.C., area at gunpoint by an elderly man who had been paid by a pimp to kidnap her. The pimp knew she had a son and used that information, manipulation and physical abuse to hold Lewis hostage for nearly two years.

Lewis, now a national advocate for trafficking survivors, will share her experience Tuesday evening during a town hall meeting sponsored by the Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Milwaukee at Mount Mary University. The meeting, about human trafficking, will feature a panel of local experts, but it is primarily aimed at teen girls.

"Our young girls are the ones being victimized, I wanted them to also be empowered and be a part of the conversation and part of the action plan to help eradicate (trafficking)," said Sandra Malone, adolescent holistic health initiatives manager for the Boys & Girls Clubs.

The meeting is part of the organization's "Year of the Girl" programming to mark the 30th anniversary of the inclusion of girls in the club, she said Monday.

Lewis said her address would be tailored to young women, focusing on pimps and trafficking and how that affects teens' views on money and their bodies, and their self-esteem.

"A lot of it is to make them aware of the problem, of how easily they can become entangled," Lewis said.

The prevalence of human trafficking, particularly child sex-trafficking, in Milwaukee is known nationwide, with the city having earned the reputation as the "Harvard of sex trafficking," Malone said. But when she asked girls in the club about the issue, many were unaware of its scope locally.

"Unfortunately, it is equal opportunity (for victimization)," she said. "It's pervasive. Everyone is at risk."

"That's the $10 million question," U.S. Attorney James Santelle said in an interview earlier this month.

Part of it, Santelle suspects, is Milwaukee's location near Chicago.

"There is some support for the notion that perpetrators think that Wisconsin is not that sophisticated, and that unlike Chicago or New York or Los Angeles or Miami, we do not appreciate the nature of the problem as much as they do there and perhaps have not devoted the resources to it," Santelle said.

"It's an imperfect answer and it's one thing that I wrestle with because we're trying to identify a solution to this by identifying why Wisconsin is so high," he said. "I don't have a good answer to that. I don't think anybody does."

© 2014 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.

The latest local news delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday around noon – or whenever there’s big breaking news.

Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!

Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.

Milwaukee Crime & Safety : Use our frequently updated interactive map and page to explore recent 911 calls and incident reports, read recent crime news, follow crime and safety tweets and more.

Journal Sentinel reporters take a closer look at murder in the city.

Search homicides in the city of Milwaukee by location, age, race, gender and date.
