
This post originally appeared on how-matters.org .

As L.A. comic Hasan Minhaj ’s own story became central to his comedy, something changed. No longer was he only making jokes about what people did on Facebook or the guy at the counter. As a first-generation American, he saw the power in his own deeper narrative. Adversity, it turns out, is a well of comic relief.

In this film, Minhaj travels to India and South Africa to determine if comedy is truly universal. In India, Minhaj learns that over 50 percent of Indians defecate outside , resulting in 1600 kids dying each day in India of sanitation-related illnesses. In South Africa, he delves into the nation’s income inequality and AIDS crisis, visiting two very different neighborhoods and a male circumcision clinic.

Despite the big problems in front of them, the comics he meets in Mumbai and Johannesburg are killing it. Minhaj meets brave and forthright comics like Aditi Mittal and Mpho Popps on his journey. They don’t just make people laugh. In Mumbai, Mittal is talking about gender, sex and equality in India. It’s her mission to push the boundaries. Popps, a “ born free ” who lost his uncle to HIV, counsels young people to protect themselves in Johannesburg.

With their comedy, the people featured in Stand Up Planet tackle deep-rooted social problems like colonialism, racism, economic exploitation, homophobia, and cultural hegemony. In demonstrating exactly how they are turning “problems to punch lines,” the comics Minhaj meets represent the tremendous human potential that lies within every place in the world.

Stand Up Planet reminds us that people have to be at the center of any solutions. It moves viewers from despair to hope in a genuine and elegant way, creating a balanced and constructive story about some of the world’s biggest and most deeply-entrenched social issues – a new narrative so needed in our sector.

Perhaps most important of all, Stand Up Planet reminds us of the strength and promise that comes when we allow ourselves to be vulnerable.

And that’s no joke.

You need to be a member of Peace and Collaborative Development Network to add comments!

Please consider  Paying What You Can to help PCDN grow. We encourage you to consider any amount from $1 and up. Read the SUPPORT page prior to making a payment to see PCDN's impact and how your payment will help.

By using this site you're agreeing to the terms of use as outlined in the community guidelines (in particular PCDN is an open network indexed by Google and users should review the privacy options). Please note individual requests for funding or jobs are NOT permitted on the network.
