
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - A federal judge on Monday struck down Oregon's voter-approved ban on gay marriage, saying it is unconstitutional.

U.S. District Judge Michael McShane said the ban unconstitutionally discriminates against same-sex couples and ordered the state not to enforce it. State officials earlier refused to defend the constitutional ban in court.

McShane joined judges in seven other states who have struck down gay marriage bans, though appeals are underway.

Oregon state officials have said they'd be prepared to carry out same-sex marriages almost immediately, and couples lined up outside the county clerk's office in Portland in anticipation of the McShane's decision.

Laurie Brown and Julie Engbloom arrived early Monday at the Multnomah County Building to form the line for marriage licenses. The two have been a couple for 10 years. Engbloom proposed in April, when they celebrated their anniversary by climbing Smith Rock in Central Oregon.

"We always knew we wanted to spend our whole life together," Brown said. "This opportunity has come, it feels right, everything has fallen into place."

Four gay and lesbian couples brought the Oregon cases, arguing the state's marriage laws unconstitutionally discriminate against them and exclude them from a fundamental right to marriage.

Democratic Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum refused to defend the ban, saying there are no legal arguments that could support it in light of decisions last year by the U.S. Supreme Court. She sided with the couples, asking the judge to overturn the ban, and says she won't appeal.

The judge denied a request by the National Organization for Marriage to defend the law on behalf of its Oregon members. A panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Monday refused the group's request for an emergency stay of that decision, allowing same-sex marriages to proceed.

Gay rights groups previously said they've collected enough signatures to force a statewide vote on gay marriage in November. But they said they would discard the signatures and drop their campaign if the court rules in their favor by May 23.

The U.S. Supreme Court last year struck down the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which barred the federal government from recognizing same-sex marriage. It determined the law improperly deprived gay couples of due process.

In addition to Oregon, federal or state judges in Idaho, Oklahoma, Virginia, Michigan, Texas, Utah and Arkansas recently have found state same-sex marriage bans to be unconstitutional. Judges also have ordered Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee to recognize same-sex marriages from other states.

But opposition remains stiff in many places. Critics note most states still do not allow gay marriage and that in most of those that do, it was the work of courts or legislatures, not the will of the people.

Oregon law has long prohibited same-sex marriage, and voters added the ban to the state constitution in 2004. The decision, approved by 57 percent of voters, came months after Multnomah County briefly issued marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Multnomah is the state's largest county and includes Portland.

What's the use of voting anymore????..it will get overturned by some liberal sniffing judge.

Seriously, I have a question...What is the Minister supposed to say..."I now pronounce you husband and husband"Â or "...Â wife and wife"???Â  Seems a bit awkward to me.

Most on the sidelines could not care less if gays can marry,

but it would be appropriate,

if the law stipulated,

that the marriage between SAME sexes is regarded as not conducive for the procreation of the species however we all will tolerate it.

So the gays want to marry each other despite the will of a majority of normal Americans? SICK! What's next? Â Some freak from seattle will demand to marry a rent a goat.

Look at how One individual can cause this train wreck.

@AS400GURU You view this as being ostracised, that you are somehow being ignored where some other group within society is being viewed as a special class and you are wrong. We all belong to a protected class in some way or another. This is about ensuring that everyone is treated fairly and equally and not about providing special rights and privileges to some while denying it from others.

@snow surfer That's not true. Marriage is a legal binding contract. Same sex marriages have not been allowed in many states. As to your definition of a 'marriage ceremony', that's wrong. A marriage ceremony is not something that one must swear an oath to a god and their spouse in order for it to be recognised. One can choose t have a religious or a non religious ceremony, however both are considered to be a valid marriage.

@Mickey602 Â  Â That's precisely the reason I respect the decision of Oregon's Attorney General to NOT fight this case. Â She knew it would be pouring money down a rat hole, knew Oregon wouldn't prevail. Â Good on her.

@JJ It was once voted that black people should not be permitted to vote. That was deemed to be unconstitutional. It is not illegal to be gay and marriage is a constitutionally protected right, so it is unconstitutional to deny same sex marriages. Vote or not.

@JJ Â Only if people vote in something that's unconstitutional and someone decides to challenge it in a court of law.

The original pledge, written by a Baptist minister reads:Â  "I pledge allegiance to my Flag and to* the Republic for which it  stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all"

When I attended a BEAUTIFUL ceremony last August the judge said "And now by the power vested in me by the State of Washington, I pronounce you Spouses for Life.Â  You may now kiss."

@TreeTopFlyer - I saw it in Hawaii last Thursday. It worked fine. Just another wedding with a happy couple.

Since I believe we already "tolerate" straight marriages where no children will be produced, I fail to understand why weÂ wouldn't be "tolerating"Â the same circumstance with gay marriages.Â  It seems to already be a non-issue.

@BigBubba Â Other than you and perhaps a handful of others, who cares? Â Straight people often don't marry for "the procreation of the species" -- they're goofballs, they marry because they love each other.

@torkzilla Â Hate to break it to you, but the majority of Americans are in favor of gay marriage. It's currently running at around 58% in nationwide polling, and rising all the time.

@BigBubba Â  Â Train wreck? Â One individual's ruling got the train back on the track.

@Just_Bob @TreeTopFlyer OK, but what did the Minister say at the conclusion of the ceremony??Â  You may kiss the "Bride"?Â  Which is the Bride?Â  This just creeps me out.

Nicely done chap!

@SunDowner @BigBubba Nicely stated however what if someone loved .... many... as is the case in some polygamous groups.

The truth is that Polygamous Marriages are likely the next item for legalization.

It takes all kinds, I guess.

@TreeTopFlyer That's not a legally defined part of the ceremony. They can just say "You may now kiss."

True polygamy doesn't work because by definition the guy would have multiple wives and the wives would have multiple husbands and/or wivesÂ who in turn have multiple wives and/or husbandsÂ and so on and so forth.

Â Â Â  What you are referring to is polygyny which is 1 man with multiple wives which is a sexist way to think. I do not think Â that it takes multiple women to equal 1 man, I'm of the opinion that one from one gender equals one from the other.

@SunDowner @BigBubba There are many benefits when you divide household responsibilities.Â  One can be the nanny, tutor the kids,Â another a cook, some earn an income, etc.Â  Of course you can then afford to live in a larger home.

@BigBubba Â  Â I can't comprehend any sane man choosing to deal with 5-8 wives....even I as a woman know it would be pure hell, it's something I honestly can't wrap my head around. Â But I have no qualms at all if consenting adults make that choice.

@SunDowner @BigBubba I and many others would enjoy a polygamous communal lifestyle.

@SunDowner @what? @torkzilla I'm guessing chemical 'enhancement/abuse' as I'd like to think that there's some outside reason for being that incredibly ignorant.

I'm not sure if this angler took any fish home, but he sure landed a prize catch with this sunset at Golden Gardens Beach.

Seattle,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
