
Share This Story!

New reports show incumbent Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad with a massive fundraising lead over challenger Jack Hatch.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

If money were votes, the race to be Iowa's next governor would be a landslide.

Figures reported Monday to the Iowa Ethics and Campaign Disclosure Board show incumbent Republican Gov. Terry Branstad with a massive advantage over Democratic challenger Jack Hatch in funds raised and cash on hand with five and a half months remaining before Election Day.

Branstad, a five-term incumbent, reported raising $1.15 million between Jan. 1 and May 14, and currently has $4.54 million in the bank.

Hatch, a state senator from Des Moines, raised $262,295 during that period, and has $312,354 on hand – one-fourteenth of Branstad's stash.

Branstad announced his bottom-line fundraising numbers late last week, and filed his official report with the Ethics Board on Monday afternoon. Hatch filed his report around the same time, with less fanfare.

Campaign manager Grant Woodard noted that Hatch just recently hired a national fundraising consultant and emphasized the senator's focus in recent months on the recently adjourned legislative sessions. Since May 1, he said, Hatch has raised almost $100,000.

"We will be ready for the general election," Woodard said in a statement released by the campaign. "Fundraising is important, but Iowans are more important, and we are seeing more and more people come on board every day – we know organized people beat organized money every time."

Both campaigns were restricted in where they could solicit and collect funds during the legislative session, and remain restricted until June 2, at the end of the period in which the governor may veto legislation.

During that period, gubernatorial candidates may not receive donations from political action committees, although they may fundraise from individuals.

The Hatch campaign on Monday also hit Branstad for raising money out of state – the governor has fundraised in Washington, D.C., and will travel this month to Florida and New Jersey.

"We'll be asking Iowans to invest while Branstad chases the big money Washington, D.C. donors to save him," Woodard said.

The Branstad campaign, however, noted last week that 98 percent of its donations in the January-to-May period came from in-state sources. On Monday, they questioned Hatch's viability as a candidate, citing comments Hatch himself made last year.

In May, 2013, Hatch said he needed to raise $1 million by the end of that year to be competitive. Now, Branstad Campaign Manager Jake Ketzner said, he's five months past that deadline and still not hit $1 million.

"Jack Hatch has failed to meet his basic fundraising goal for 2013—and we are a full five months into 2014," Ketzner said in a statement. "Hatch has already pledged to raise taxes, spend more of hard-working Iowans' money and take us back in time to the disastrous Chet Culver era. It comes as no surprise that he can't find many donors to finance such terrible ideas."

The next reporting period for the candidates ends May 27, and candidates must report their revenues and expenditures by May 30.
