
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The joint legislative committee investigating the George Washington Bridge lane closures is scheduled to question one of Gov. Chris Christie’s former campaign staffers Tuesday but GOP Assembly leader Jon Bramnick said he doubts any worthwhile information will come out.

In fact, Bramnick on Monday said it’s time to suspend the legislative probe for several months, though he suggested lawmakers could come back to it if warranted by the results of law enforcement investigations.

Matt Mowers, the executive director of the New Hampshire Republican Party since November, reached out to Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich for an endorsement as a regional political director in eight northern counties for the Christie campaign team.

Mowers, 24, will meet with the New Jersey Legislative Select Committee on Investigation at 10 a.m. Tuesday in Committee Room 11 of the Statehouse Annex in Trenton.

“It’s spicy, juicy and interesting, but I doubt that Matt Mowers is going to shine any light’’ on the lane closures, Bramnick said.

Republican Assemblywoman Amy Handlin, a member of the Democrat-controlled investigative panel, has pressed colleagues to take action on a set of bills she’s co-sponsoring that would reform the Port Authority.

Democrats responded by saying they've been able to multi-task and that there's no reason to put the investigation on hold.

Handlin said Bramnick was not speaking for all GOP lawmakers.

“I’m not calling for that (a suspension of the investigation). I’m calling for a suspension of the animus nature of the hearings as they’re currently being conducted,’’ said Handlin, adding that she’s unsure of what she’ll be able to contribute Tuesday.

“Frankly I don’t think there’s any point to raising my hand once the gavel comes down because (co-chairman John Wisniewski) won’t let me talk,’’ she said.

Bramnick and Handlin made their comments during and after a Statehouse news conference where they called on Democrats to support agendas Republican Gov. Chris Christie campaigned on in 2013.
