
No two industries were more affected by the explosion in 2010 of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig than restaurant/hospitality and commercial fishing on the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The oil spill that spewed hundreds of millions of gallons of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico kept tourists away and left Gulf Coast-caught seafood with a black eye among consumers.

However, a new promotional effort has been launched to assist those industries’ recovery, and it is being funded by BP, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon.

Inspired by the success of the Mississippi Blues Trail and Mississippi Country Music Trail, just this month Mike Cashion, CAE, executive director of the Mississippi Hospitality & Restaurant Association (MHRA), unveiled the new Seafood Trails Program, a tourism-promotion initiative that spotlights restaurants that offer Coast-caught seafood.

Cashion explained that last year’s program “Every Shrimp Has a Tale” — also funded by a BP Tourism Promotional Fund grant (part of BP’s settlement with the Plaintiff’s Steering Committee in the wake of the oil spill)  and aimed at giving consumers a chance to track their shrimp from the Gulf to their plate — was successful, and BP wanted a similar program this year. However, the Every Shrimp Has a Tale Program was limited to a 13-week run, was very technical and expensive, relying entirely on BP funding. So, looking to 2014 Cashion had a different vision.

To be considered for inclusion in the Seafood Trails Program, restaurants must offer at least five menu items featuring seafood caught in the Gulf of Mexico through Dec. 14. Cashion and Grady Griffin, MHRA’s educational director, will oversee the project, and a focus group will manage marketing and advertising as well as media purchases.

» During the time periods selected, participating restaurants must exhibit marketing material as provided and as applicable.

» Participating restaurants agree to train and educate their staff on the Seafood Trails Program to enhance the guest experience. The MHRA will, at the invitation of the participant, provide on-location service training for the participating restaurant at no cost to the restaurant.

» The MHRA will play no role in either pricing of product or pricing of menu items. Securing approved product is the responsibility of participating restaurants, and the MHRA will provide consultation whenever possible.

» For grant reporting purposes, participating restaurants must submit to MHRA data on any sales increase or decrease over the same period from the previous year and provide operator feedback on the pros and cons of the program.

» Participating restaurants agree to comply with the provisions of the program’s memorandum of understanding. Under no circumstances may participating restaurants misrepresent product being featured in the Seafood Trails Program. Featured products must be of Gulf of Mexico origin.

» Participating restaurants will be subject to random product audits to ensure the integrity of the marketing claim.

In the event of a material breach of any of the provisions of this agreement, the MHRA reserves the right to discontinue the participation of the non-compliant restaurant.

Cashion emphasized that the Seafood Trails is a pilot program, and is currently open to Coast restaurants only. However, if the program shows returns, the trail could expand in the future to included any Mississippi restaurant meeting the program’s requirements.

Backers are buoyed be the early response. Cashion held a news briefing on the new initiative in Gulfport on Wednesday, May 7. More than two dozen restaurateurs attended. By Friday, May 9, Cashion had “a stack” of applications from prospective program participants on his desk.

For more on the Seafood Trails Program, visit www.mhra.org.

Our annual "Come See Us" magazine offers ideas for spots in Mississippi ranging from golf to culture to history to food. Click the photo for ideas, stories and access to the digital edition of this year's magazine.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
