
From left: Mark Norman, of 12 Points Solutions; Kevin Beale, of Real Time Diagnostics; Dr. Ronald Moyer, of 12 Points Solutions; and Sean Mahone, of Real Time Diagnostics, are shown at an open house event in Louisville last week.

Louisville-based 12 Points Solutions LLC, a health care consulting firm, sees a new opportunity in diagnostic testing.

The firm recently struck a deal to consult with Real Time Diagnostics, a Warren, Mich.-based firm that provides monitoring for patients taking Coumadin therapy. Coumadin is a prescription medicine used in the treatment of blood clots that can lead to strokes or heart attacks.

Real Time Diagnostics monitors and consults Coumadin patients and their doctors. It has operations in several states and is just now entering the Kentucky market. Kevin T. Beale , director of Real TIme Diagnostics' cardiac division, said the move to this market makes sense because there is a need for the service here. President Sean Mahone said the monitoring not only benefits the patient but also the doctor and the health care payer.

That's where 12 Points Solutions comes in. The firm will get the word out about Real Time Diagnostics to health care providers and payers. "This has the potential to reduce costs" for both, said Mark Norman , president of 12 Points.

The relationship between the companies started after 12 Points chief medical officer Dr. Ronald Moyer was on a personal visit to Michigan. He heard about Real Time Diagnostics while there and thought they would be a good fit for 12 Points. That led to phone calls between the two companies and this partnership, according to Norman.

When we spoke last week, representatives from each company said a written contract between the two companies was still in the works. They declined to disclose the value of the contract. The length of the pending contract has also not yet been determined.

"We want a long-term relationship," Norman told me.

David A. Mann covers these beats: Health care, health insurance, distribution/logistics (UPS), manufacturing (GE, Ford), environment, travel, minority/women’s affairs and Southern Indiana.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
