
Youngsters who showed up at Wolf Creek Environmental Center in Sharon Township on Sunday were hoping to run into some rabbits — but they got to see something even rarer.

A pileated woodpecker was seen drilling at a tree in the woods, surprising visitors and even the naturalist.

Scott Butler, one of the visitors, said he hadn’t seen a wild woodpecker in a long time.

Bailey said she was disappointed the group couldn’t see any rabbits, but said nature doesn’t always work well with people.

The goal of the walk was to spot a rabbit, which was the subject of a lecture by Bailey prior to the walk.

Bailey said rabbits, hares and pikas — animals native to the Western United States — are “lagomorphs,” a family of animals similar to rodents.

She shared several fun facts about rabbits, including that Ohio rabbits don’t live in holes like storybooks say and that they can swim if necessary to avoid predators.

Bailey said it’s important for people to know about rabbits because it could save the animals’ lives.

She said if a family comes across a nest, they should wait until either dusk or dawn to see if they can spot the babies’ mother.

Contact reporter Nick Glunt at (330) 721-4048 or nglunt@medina-gazette.com . Follow him on Twitter @ngfalcon .

The following is a list of Medina County Park District programs and activities for the remainder of May. All events are free unless otherwise noted. Register at www.medinacountyparks.com . For more information, call (330) 722-9364.

• Tales for Tots, Green Leaf Park, 10 a.m. or 1 p.m. Youngsters can become nature artists and experiment with the colors in nature while hearing stories and going on a rainbow hike. For ages 3 to 6 with an adult companion. Because some or the entire program may be held outdoors, parents are advised to dress their children appropriately. Deadline for registering is Thursday.

• Migratory Bird Banding, Wolf Creek Environmental Center, 9 a.m. Bird banding is a scientific research method that studies bird behavior and movements and provides valuable information about avian populations and migratory patterns. The data collected through bird banding is critical to identify contributing factors affecting populations in both winter and summer habitats and the establishment of needed conservation efforts. Participants will join licensed bird banders Gary and Jill Fowler at Wolf Creek to learn more about the significance of bird banding and see how it is done. Bird banding is weather variable and may not be done if it is raining or snowing. Signs will be posted at Wolf Creek if bird banding is occurring and to direct participants to the banding location on the dates listed above. All ages welcome. No registration required.

• Hurray for May!, Susan Hambley Nature Center, noon to 5 p.m. Spring is the perfect time for a chance to get out of the house and explore. There will be new activities and crafts each weekend in the month. All ages welcome. No registration required.

The Medina County Park District’s Plum Creek Park in Brunswick Hills Township has been reopened after flood damage from last Monday’s severe storms forced closing the facility.
