
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

An employee of the Democratic Party of Oregon was the first person to request the April 2013 police report of timber baron Andrew Miller accusing Republican Senate candidate Monica Wehby of "stalking " him after a break-up.

Jon Friedman, who listed a Northeast Portland address, requested the report from Portland police on April 17, 2014, documents obtained by The Oregonian through a public records request show. Friedman did not immediately return a message seeking comment Monday.

Friedman works as a research assistant for the Democratic Party of Oregon , said Jamal Raad, party spokesman. Raad declined to comment further.

Raad previously worked as a spokesman for Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley, who is seeking re-election to a second term. Merkley will face Wehby or state Rep. Jason Conger , R-Bend, depending on who wins the May 20 Republican primary.

Since the April 2013 incident was first reported by Politico at 2:40 a.m. Pacific time Friday, political observers have speculated about the source of the leak. Politico did not submit a request for the report to Portland police, documents obtained by The Oregonian show.

The Democratic Party of Oregon sent out a press release about the Politico story at 6:51 a.m. Friday.

Merkley, asked about the report Friday morning at a Portland news conference he called to talk about stemming suicides among military veterans, called the Wehby report a private family matter.

Asked whether his campaign had found and released the police report, he said only: "I had not heard about this issue until it came up in the news." He declined to comment on any implications for his matchup with Wehby if she wins the GOP nomination Tuesday.

Wehby campaign manager Charlie Pearce on Monday evening issued a statement accusing Democrats of a "war on women."

Further documents released Monday by Portland police detailed 2007 and 2009 incidents when Wehby's ex-husband, Jim Grant, accused her of "ongoing harassment" and refusing to leave until she saw their children.

Anne Marie Gurney, vice chairwoman of the Multnomah County Republican Party, said Friedman had shown up at three private gatherings often featuring Republican Senate candidates.

First, he showed up at a meeting of the conservative Executive Club in January, she said. As Conger spoke, Friedman "sat there the whole time with a camera, which is unusual... He was there the whole time filming."

She snapped his photo, sent it out to her contacts and learned his name. Gurney said she then found he identified himself as a Democratic Party of Oregon employee on his Facebook page, which has since been taken down.

In late March, at a meeting of the county Republican Party, Gurney noticed him again, and the group asked him to leave the members-only event. "He actually got a little testy about it," she said.

In early April, Wehby was scheduled to speak at the Executive Club, and Gurney noticed Friedman again and clued in the meeting organizers that Friedman was a Democratic operative.

"He was asked to leave again," she said. "He snapped my picture as he left. It was kind of cute."

Conservative blogger Dan Sandini, who uses the handle name Daylight Disinfectant, wrote about Friedman's ties to the Democratic Party of Oregon in April.

Keep tabs on the people who represent your interests in Salem and Washington, D.C.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
