
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!

Like most reasonable folks, the Wyoming couple felt with a permit in hand, they were free to move along with their project and create the watering hole for their cattle. However, the EPA apparently saw the matter differently. The federal agency sent Katie and Andy Johnson a notice informing them they had violated the Clean Water Act, a misdeed which carried thousands of dollars in penalties and fines.

The EPA notice to the Wyoming couple claimed that during the building of the pond the Johnson’s had “discharged of pollutants [i.e. dredged or fill material] into the waters of the United States.” They were also cited for not getting a permit to build a dam and neglecting to get another permit from the Army Corps of Engineers.

Andy Johnson told Fox News that there has been no pollution generated due to the building of the pond. He called the EPA’s stance that the Clean Water Act has been violated nothing more than an assumption. “There’s been no soil samples done, there’s been no water samples done,” he added. The Wyoming couple paid to have samples taken from their pond. The test results reportedly revealed that the water in the pond was cleaner than the water entering into it.

The couple has referred to the cattle pond as a “little irrigation canal.” Andy and Katie said that bald eagles, moose, blue herons, ducks, and geese all now frequent the watering hole. There was reportedly no such animal activity before.

The EPA contends that since Six Mile Creek runs into Black Forks River, which runs into Green River, the pond impacts a “navigable, interstate waterway in the United States.” Andy maintains that there is no connection to the river from his pond because Six Mile Creek has long been diverted about 300 yards away from his property due to a man-made irrigation canal.

The Wyoming couple is planning to fight the EPA and have received thousands of supportive phone calls from landowners around the nation. Some people feel the EPA is engaging in strong-arm tactics reminiscent of the BLM controversies in Nevada , Texas , Utah , and most recently New Mexico . Other supporters of the Johnson’s feel that the Clean Water Act dispute could be part of an Agenda 21 initiative.

Are you kidding me? Fire the bureaucrats and hire some people who care about our country.

Foolish, foolish person.

My god, what a gullible group of people.

Shelley Powers Wow! I am gullible? I guess I will take gullible over arrogant any day. And I am sure there is nothing in this article that corroborates your contention.

"The EPA contends that since Six Mile Creek runs into Black Forks River, which runs into Green River, the pond impacts a “navigable, interstate waterway in the United States.” Andy maintains that there is no connection to the river from his pond because Six Mile Creek has long been diverted about 300 yards away from his property due to a man-made irrigation canal."

Welcome to the United Nations. It's your world.

Agenda 21 is a comprehensive plan of action to be taken globally, nationally and locally by organizations of the United Nations System, Governments, and Major Groups in every area in which human impacts on the environment.

Agenda 21, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the Statement of principles for the Sustainable Management of Forests were adopted by more than 178 Governments at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) held in Rio de Janerio, Brazil, 3 to 14 June 1992.

The Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) was created in December 1992 to ensure effective follow-up of UNCED, to monitor and report on implementation of the agreements at the local, national, regional and international levels. It was agreed that a five year review of Earth Summit progress would be made in 1997 by the United Nations General Assembly meeting in special session.

The full implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Commitments to the Rio principles, were strongly reaffirmed at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) held in Johannesburg, South Africa from 26 August to 4 September 2002.

Why, it's the same person who the story was about. Why, golly. What a credible source he is.

Water is being filtered? Oh, is this the same water that was diverted? Or is this a different water.

Wow, it's too bad that the specially trained engineers at the Army Corps of Engineers don't have your keen understanding of water flow. I guess they have to muddle along with their years of college training and experience.

Join Us!

Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
