
Although popularized by President Ronald Reagan, its author was Gaylord Parkinson, a San Diego physician who chaired a divided California Republican Party in the mid-1960s. Reagan embraced it and emerged from a potentially divisive GOP primary race for governor in 1966 and won the general election.

Now in Montana, three former state Republican chairmen, in a highly unusual move, have lined up to publicly oppose Republican U.S. House candidate Ryan Zinke in the five-way primary.

Former U.S. Rep. Rick Hill of Helena, former state Sen. Ken Miller of Laurel and state Sen. John Brenden of Scobey have accused Zinke of trying to rebrand himself as a staunch Republican conservative for the congressional race.

His refurbished image, they argue, is at odds with Zinke’s moderate voting record as a state senator from Whitefish in 2009 and 2011 on issues such as abortion, education, environment and labor.

Hill has used postings on his Facebook page to contrast Zinke’s campaign stands with his legislative voting record. Miller has done the same through his email list.

Hill supports state Sen. Elsie Arntzen of Billings in the primary. Miller said he could go for Arntzen, state Sen. Matt Rosendale of Glendive or former Sen. Corey Stapleton of Billings.

It’s hard to know how these critiques are affecting the primary. Zinke has been the leading fundraiser, by far, and was widely seen as one of the frontrunners.

Asked his reaction to the criticisms, Zinke said he continues to abide by the 11th Commandment.

Longtime political observers, the state Republican chairman and even Hill and Miller can’t recall when a top Republican candidate here last underwent such a public critique.

Deschamps said he would rather see supporters of candidates talk about the good attributes their candidates than attack others.

Hill defended his actions.

Although Zinke cites the 11th Commandment, Miller said the Special Operations for America super PAC, which Zinke founded and critics say still coordinates with, have run negative ads against Rosendale. Zinke has denied that he’s coordinated with the PAC.

David Parker, political science professor at Montana State University, said the attacks levied against Zinke would be more unusual if they were coming from current party officers. Candidates’ use of surrogates to attack rivals is commonplace and protect the candidate who benefits, he said.

If Zinke captures the primary, these internal attacks shouldn’t hurt him, Parker said.

Craig Wilson, political science professor at MSU Billings, said he thought Zinke was probably the primary favorite, prior to these attacks.

“But it remains to be seen if they will be able to hurt him badly enough to sneak (their candidates) in,” Wilson said.

Copyright 2014 missoulian.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

"How will I seek and serve God in others, especially in those who are different from me?"

The party of bullies turns on its own kind. Not surprising at all.

The republicans haven't even lost the primary election yet and already their crying sour grapes. Ah well, stick with what ya do best.

Those on the extreme right of our party who demand ideological purity are doing a great disservice to republicans and honest legitimate candidates who ACTUALLY have a chance to win. Extremists are, for the most part, unelectable, and do NOTHING but insure that Democrats will prevail. And those who don't believe that Democrats are working gleefully behind the scenes, supporting right wing extremists and working hard to stir up trouble between Republicans are very naïve..

Montana Democrats don't mind a bit if Republican candidates speak ill of one another during the current campaign season.  It simply helps to reveal to the voting public what kind of people each of them really are.  The best thing to do at present is simply to sit back and enjoy the various dogfights going on.

It is every  patriotic American's duty to speak ill of the republicans because God knows they make us ill.

Commentary and photos submitted to the Missoulian (Missoulian.com)  may be published or distributed in print, electronically or other forms.  Opinions expressed in Missoulian.com's comments reflect the opinions of the  author, and are not necessarily the opinions of the Missoulian or its parent  company. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for more information.

Our guidelines prohibit the solicitation of products or  services, the impersonation of another site user, threatening or harassing  postings and the use of vulgar, abusive, obscene or sexually oriented language,  defamatory or illegal material. You may not post content that degrades others  on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion,  sexual orientation, disability or other classification. It's fine to criticize  ideas, but ad hominem attacks on other site users are prohibited. Users who  violate those standards may lose their privileges on missoulian.com .

No short policy such as this can spell out all possible  instances of material or behavior that we might deem to be a violation of our  publishing standards, and we reserve the right to remove any material posted to  the site.

Missoulian digital director Emily Foster presents the latest news you need to know about today's headlines in about three minutes.

Nathaniel Charles talks about his life as a crew member with the Youth Harvest Project.

Username & Password Required!
