
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:46 p.m.

California Chrome set the stage for a run to the Triple Crown at Belmont Park in the Big Apple in three weeks, and the cast for this event comes straight out of central casting.

Beginning with California Chrome, the star of the show, the California-bred colt, winner of the Kentucky Derby and Preakness, presents the dual character of underdog and hero.

With his genealogy, he is an underdog. On the racetrack, he is a champion. The only problem with the son of Lucky Pulpit and his dam, the appropriately named Love the Chase — he can’t talk or tweet. Imagine the things he might say about the other horses, their trainers, owners and jockeys. TMZ would be abuzz with California Chrome news, tweets and Instagrams.

I don’t know if California Chrome would be like Muhammad Ali with poems about his rivals, or if he would be hostile and angry like Tommy DeVito from the Good Fellas. “What do you mean I’m funny?” Most racing fans would like him to be a quiet, humble champion on the order of a James Stewart character.

Instead, trainer Art Sherman and his assistant and son Alan do the talking for California Chrome. The 77-year-old Sherman looks as though he stepped right out of the movie The Black Stallion, specifically the part of the old trainer played by the late Mickey Rooney. Sherman isn’t scruffy, but he is direct and confident. He is not afraid to express his opinion.

A former stable boy, exercise rider, jockey and now trainer Sherman knows a little bit about horses and racing, and he expressed it well. Jockey Victor Espinosa has performed flawlessly in his role.

And then, there are the owners — Steve Coburn and Perry Martin, the two men who bought an $8,000 mare and bred her to a $2,500 stallion and now stand very near the peak of racing and breeding achievement — the Triple Crown, a title which has not gone claimed for 35 years since Florida-bred Affirmed claimed it from Alydar in 1978.

Although solidly employed in interesting jobs, the two men and their wives are described as “just everyday people” by Coburn, the more public of the two owners. NBC’s cameras caught Coburn weeping following the victory by California Chrome in Saturday’s race.

The Martins were not present for the Preakness. In the post race press conference, Coburn explained that they were absent due to the miserable experience the group had at the Kentucky Derby.

Coburn’s supporting role in this story grew with this disclosure.

It comes on the heels of a landslide of bad publicity reaped by Churchill Downs leading up to this year’s Derby.

Rick Porter wanted to run Normandy Invasion in a grade-two stakes at Churchill derby day, but he was told by the buffoons that run Churchill he was entitled to no seats as an owner.

Porter elected to run his horse somewhere else and went public about his displeasure. Trainer Chad Brown also wanted seats for nine of his owners and associates. He was told it would be $42,000. One would think the owners of stakes horses, and particularly Derby horses would be the elite, and receive comparable treatment.

In addition to Coburn, Ron Turcotte, the wheelchair bound jockey of Secretariat went public with his displeasure about his Derby experience the year before.

However, Churchill is run like a country club for corporate interests. To validate this statement, the Monday before the Derby a federal filing showed the top five Churchill officers received $27.9 million in bonuses, but they can‘t find seats for the owners of horses that put on the show.

Every script needs a villain. California Chrome has all the horses that run against him and their jockeys for villains, but the buffoons at Churchill would not allow themselves to be upstaged.

Perhaps Belmont can oblige with a better experience for everyone, and California Chrome and his supporting characters will reward them with a Triple Crown.
