
(Photo : REUTERS/Seachangetechnology) A 14-foot great white shark has been spotted off the coast of Key Largo on Monday, capturing the attention of residents and researchers. Over the last week, she has swam past West Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale and Miami.

A 14-foot great white shark has been spotted off the coast of Key Largo on Monday, capturing the attention of residents and researchers. Over the last week, she has swam past West Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale and Miami.

Named Katharine, researchers are unaware of where she will go next. Trackers follow the 2,300 pounder on the marine research website OCEARCH. Every 30 minutes, the website updates her location.

Katherine's fin was tagged with a tracker and every time her fin comes out of the water, her location is updated.

"Katharine likes to come up and ping for long periods of time," said OCEARCH founder Chris Fischer.

Other sharks only get pinged once a year.

The great white was named after Katharine Lee Bates, an American songwriter.

"She's doing what she wants to do," said George Burgess, director of the Florida Program for Shark Research at the Florida Museum of Natural History in Gainesville. "Its time to eat - that's why she's still here. As the water temperature increases, she will head back North. "

Katharine's movements may provide new information for researchers on the behavior of some sharks. She could reveal the path that an Atlantic female great white takes to get to the gulf coast.

"The public is in the research project learning at the same time as the scientists," Fischer said. Researchers are also waiting to see where Katharine ends up. "If Katharine returns to Cape Cod this August then it's likely she's not pregnant," he said "If she doesn't go back then she's likely to be pregnant."

Katharine is social savvy as well as she has over 4,000 followers on Twitter.

"There is a cone of uncertainty around where that shark is on every given time," he said. "We need to remember there are restrictions on what that technology tells us."

© 2014 Design & Trend All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
