
Mugs, T-shirts, scarves and other souvenirs have triggered controversy at the National September 11 Memorial Museum, which holds unidentified remains of some of the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks — as well as a gift shop.

It isn’t unusual for museums that commemorate tragedy to have gift shops, which help cover operational costs. There’s one at the USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor, and another at the Oklahoma City National Memorial & Museum.

“It’s crass commercialism on a literally sacred site,” Kurt Horning, whose son Matthew died on 9/11, said in a telephone interview Monday. “It’s a burial ground. We don’t think there should be those things offered on that spot.

The museum will open to the public Wednesday, but families of 9/11 victims, along with rescue and recovery workers, were able to visit the facility last week for a preview — during which the gift shop was open for business.

“They’re down there selling bracelets; they’re making money off my dead son,” said Jim Riches, whose firefighter son, Jimmy, died at the World Trade Center on 9/11.

Some of the items for sale in the gift shop are clearly intended to tap into the sense of solidarity that emerged in New York following the attacks, like the plain black T-shirts with the tagline “honor, remember, reunite.” But others, like a black hoodie with the twin towers emblazoned on the front, seem more of a vivid and painful reminder of what was lost. And some pieces of New York City Fire Department memorabilia — including a doggie vest and toy truck — seem kitschy or trivial.

“In fact, many of our guests from the 9/11 community have visited the shop and purchased a keepsake from their historic experience,” he wrote.

The 9/11 museum isn’t the only memorial to tragedy or death to include a gift shop.

Arlington National Cemetery has a small bookstore that sells items including lapel pins, magnets and T-shirts to commemorate the Tomb of the Unknowns. At the Pearl Harbor memorial in Hawaii, the non-profit Pacific Historic Parks operates a gift shop whose proceeds pay for programming.

The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington also has a museum shop, which is stocked with a range of items including books, “Never Again” patches, menorahs and World War II posters.

Mandel was speaking specifically about the Holocaust Museum; she declined to comment on the 9/11 Memorial Museum’s commerce controversy.

Officials at the New York museum had already frustrated some 9/11 relatives.

Kurt and Diane Horning were founders of the WTC Families for Proper Burial, which sued New York City for the right to bury remains that were in the material and debris from the World Trade Center site; from the beginning, they and other 9/11 families objected to the remains being used as a “ programmatic element ” at a tourist attraction.

Other family members  petitioned  and  protested  against the decision to make those remains a part of a repository at the museum — even though the area would be closed to the public, and the museum will remain free to all 9/11 relatives.

Kurt Horning suggested that the shock factor of including those remains was more important than respect for the wishes of 9/11 families.

“They’re using it basically like a Ringling Brothers sideshow attraction,” Horning said Monday. “We were dismayed about that.

Horning attended the preview but said his wife, Diane, refused because of the decision to open the gift shop — along with a cafe — at the site.

Of course, it’s nearly impossible to walk a block in New York City without encountering merchandise for sale — and 9/11 commemorative items have been a part of the city for years. T-shirts and other wearable apparel are a big part of first-responder culture, according to Noam Freedman, owner of the New York Firestore in lower Manhattan, which has sold commemorative 9/11 material since the 2001 attacks.

When Freedman’s store reopened near the end of September 2001, the Firestore stocked its first commemorative 9/11 T-shirt.

“They all started showing up at the store asking for shirts and they wanted a memorial shirt,” Freedman said. “They wanted to put something on that commemorated what took place.

The Firestore has donated more than $250,000 to 9/11 charities from the proceeds of its sales.

More than 12 years later, Freedman is sympathetic to the struggle that the memorial’s organizers face, given the sensitivity of the subject. But his store is proof that the demand for items that commemorate 9/11 is still strong.

A previous version of this story incorrectly identified the National September 11 Memorial Museum as the National September 11 Memorial Hall and Museum.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
