
Albino Doberman pinschers share a similar gene with humans who also have the condition, scientists say.

Dogs and people have more in common than a love of Frisbees and long walks on the beach. A new study finds that certain dogs, just like certain humans, carry a gene mutation that causes albinism — a condition that results in little or no pigment in the eyes, skin and hair.

The study by researchers at Michigan State University identifies the exact genetic mutation that leads to albinism in Doberman pinschers , a discovery that has eluded veterinarians and dog breeders until now. Interestingly, the same mutated gene that causes albinism in this dog breed is also associated with a form of albinism in humans.

Winkler said the gene mutation found in Doberman pinschers is responsible for a condition known as oculocutaneous albinism, which also affects humans. The condition expresses certain characteristics in both humans and dogs .

"With an albino Doberman, you see a white or lighter-colored coat, pink noses and lips, along with pale irises in the eyes," Winkler said. "These traits are very similar to the characteristics humans display with this particular condition, causing light-pigmented skin and hair, along with eye discoloration and vision disturbances."

Just as people with this type of albinism experience skin sensitivity to sunlight, which can result in an increased vulnerability to skin tumors , canines with the mutated gene were also found to be at higher risk for developing skin tumors, the researchers said.

"We knew that albino Dobermans typically developed these types of tumors, much like [albino] humans, but we wondered what the actual increase in prevalence was between a 'white' dog and a regular-colored Doberman," said Joshua Bartoe, an assistant professor in the Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences at Michigan State University, who co-led the study. "What we found was a significant increase in risk for development of melanoma-like tumors in the albino dogs."

These findings were based on a study of 40 Dobermans pinschers — 20 albino dogs and 20 "regular-colored" dogs. The researchers found that more than half of the albino dogs had at least one tumor, while only one of the regular-colored dogs had a tumor.

Bartoe and Winkler said their study could serve as a valuable resource for Doberman breeders around the world, particularly because the American Kennel Club, a registry of purebred dog pedigrees in the United States, doesn't allow the registration of albino dogs.

"Because Dobermans can carry the defective gene, but show no signs of the [condition], this has posed serious problems among breeders," Bartoe said. "But now that we've identified the mutation, we can look at the genetic makeup of these dogs and determine if they might be carriers."

The results of the new study were published March 19 in the journal PLOS ONE .

Follow Elizabeth Palermo on Twitter @ techEpalermo , Facebook or Google+ . Follow Live Science @livescience , Facebook & Google+ . Original article on Live Science.

The 2009 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Donald Unger for investigating a possible cause of arthritis of the fingers, by diligently cracking the knuckles of his left hand — but never cracking the knuckles of his right hand — every day for more than 60 years. He concluded that knuckle cracking does not cause arthritis.

The 2009 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to Daniel E. Lieberman, and his fellow researchers Katherine Whitcome and Liza Shapiro, for analytically determining why pregnant women don't tip over by leaning back.

The 2006 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to four scientists who studied how to cure intractable hiccups with a digital rectal massage. Dr. Francis Fesmire during his Ig Nobel Prize acceptance speech displayed "Dr. Franz's Anti-Hiccup Kit," which comes with "gloves, KY Jelly and detailed instructions on proper finger technique."

The 2009 Ig Nobel Prize in Veterinary Medicine was awarded to two scientists for "showing that cows who have names give more milk than cows that are nameless."

The 2007 Ig Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to two American and a Puerto Rican scientists for discovering that Coca-Cola is an effective spermicide... and to three Taiwanese scientists for discovering that it is not.

The 2008 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Dan Ariely of Duke University and three other scientists for "demonstrating that high-priced fake medicine is more effective than low-priced fake medicine."

The 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in Biology was awarded to five scientists for showing that herrings may communicate by farting.

The 2011 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Mirjam Tuk and eight others for researching how the need to urinate impacts decision-making. Tuk found that test subjects who needed to urinate were less likely to make an impulsive financial decision than those who did not need to go to the bathroom.

The 2002 Ig Nobel Prize in Hygiene was awarded to Eduardo Segura for inventing a washing machine for cats and dogs. The machine is marketed under the name Lavakan.

The 2007 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Brian Witcombe and Dan Meyer for their research on sword swallowing and its side effects.

The 2011 Ig Nobel Prize in Psychology was awarded to Karl Teigen for studying why, in everyday life, people sigh. Teigen found that people perceive others sighing in public as a sign of boredom, frustration or resignation, while private sighs were seen as reflecting sadness.

The 2006 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to three scientists for their insights into why, when you bend dry spaghetti, it often breaks into more than two pieces.

The 2005 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Gregg A. Miller for inventing Neuticles -- artificial replacement testicles for dogs, which are available in three sizes, and three degrees of firmness.

The 2010 Ig Nobel Prize in Biology was awarded to eight scientists for scientifically documenting fellatio in fruit bats.

The 2010 Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to two Dutch scientists for discovering that symptoms of asthma can be treated with a roller-coaster ride.

The 2012 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to four scientists for calculating the balance of forces that shape and move the hair in a human ponytail.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
