
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa — Eleven Iowa Democratic activists had been talking about the state of the country, the politics of 2016 and a prospective presidential campaign by Hillary Rodham Clinton one recent night when they were asked two questions.

The first was whom they would invite to a dinner party if they could choose from among four prominent Democrats. Six picked President Obama. Two each named Vice President Biden and former president Bill Clinton. A lone woman said she would invite Hillary Clinton.

Next they were asked whom among that same group they would call first if they faced a family emergency. The response was overwhelming: Seven of the 11 wanted Clinton at their side.

Their answers crystallized nearly two hours of conversation and captured the range of Democratic sentiment about Clinton, whose possible candidacy is eagerly anticipated by people in her party. But a separate conversation with a smaller group of Republican activists highlighted the degree to which she remains a polarizing figure — though they acknowledged that she would be a more formidable candidate than last time.

During her 2008 campaign, no state frustrated Clinton more than Iowa, which launched Obama , then a senator from Illinois, and dealt her a demoralizing third-place finish.

Back then many Iowans thought Clinton and her national campaign team came across as aloof and presumptuous.

“They were just going through the motions,” added Kay Hale, 62, a school-bus driver.

“It was like, ‘We’re here, and we can’t wait until we get out of here,’ ” Todd said.

Today, Iowa activists see Clinton through a new lens. Democrats, including those who backed Obama in 2008, are offering strong encouragement.

At the same time, these Democratic activists offered warnings, saying that Clinton must run a different kind of campaign and show a warmer side of her personality if she hopes to be successful.

The observations in this article come from two sessions with Iowa activists. The first included 11 Democrats from Linn County, around Cedar Rapids. The second session was with six mostly establishment Republicans in suburban West Des Moines, part of Dallas County.

Their opinions and observations are their own, and are not meant to be a representation of the broader electorate or a scientific sample. But because these are among the most politically engaged Iowans, their views provide an early look at perceptions of Clinton in a state that brought her disappointment in 2008.

When Clinton ran in 2008, she had two big liabilities in Iowa. One was her 2002 vote authorizing President George W. Bush to go to war in Iraq, a vote she never truly recanted. The vote alienated the state’s liberal activists and put her at odds with Obama.

On policy issues, these Democrats offered little to suggest that they fear that Clinton would be too hawkish for their tastes or that her economic ideas would be too centrist. Many expressed deep concerns about the growing divide between rich and poor in the country but said they believed she would share that concern, even if she did not use the type of fiery rhetoric associated with Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and others.

The other problem was a perception that Clinton and her campaign entourage were aloof, distant and lacking a common touch. “Bad manners,” said Libby Slappey, 62, a fundraiser. That still concerned many of those around the table.

One after another expressed disgruntlement with the way Clinton and her team conducted themselves in 2007 and 2008. “People felt like her campaign thought they had a sense of entitlement because they were the Clintons,” said Gretchen Lawyer, 41, a teacher and Obama volunteer.

These Democrats may eagerly await Clinton’s candidacy, but all had advice for her about how to run a different campaign in 2016 than she ran in 2008.

Those in the group questioned Clinton’s honesty and said they do not trust her. They also see her as vulnerable on issues including Benghazi and health care, citing her role in shaping her husband’s failed effort to reform the health-care system when he was president.

“I think she would be polarizing, as polarizing as Obama has been,” added Charles Schneider, a state senator and Lisa Schneider’s husband.

These Republicans applauded House Republicans for their decision to launch another investigation of what happened in Benghazi, Libya, in September 2012 and said the issue will not recede if Clinton is a candidate.

“She was in charge of the State Department, and I think it’s not necessarily politics. I think the American people deserve to know the truth,” said Chad Airhart, 37, the Dallas County recorder.

There was little appetite for a Biden campaign in 2016, though he is well liked in the state. On the question of whether a primary contest would be good for Clinton, there was division.

Dan Balz is Chief Correspondent at The Washington Post. He has served as the paper’s National Editor, Political Editor, White House correspondent and Southwest correspondent.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
