
Feel like you’ve seen this movie before? We are told that the president is angry and White House officials are touting a high-level firing – but the firing isn’t a firing and the anger doesn’t seem to translate into action. The Obama administration scandal maintenance playbook might need an update for the growing outrage over mistreatment of veterans at government hospitals, but so far the approach seems nearly identical to the White House strategy a year ago in combating the revelation that the IRS had targeted the president’s political enemies. On Sunday, White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough told CBS News that his boss was “madder than hell. In May 2013, President Obama said “Americans are right to be angry about [IRS targeting], and I am angry about it.” In the same speech the president announced the resignation of acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller. It turned out, though, that Miller was planning to leave his post the next month anyway. Now, the administration is talking tough about the “resignation” of Dr. Robert Petzel as the VA’s second in command was announced. Guess what? Petzel was already slated to retire. It took only nine months for the president to go from surprised anger to laughing assurances that there wasn’t “ even a smidgen of corruption ” at the IRS. While the president’s rage was abating over the abuse of his political detractors, his team was working hard to knock down and muddy the story. This time, good luck with that. When the victims are veterans rather than conservative activists, it will be much harder to convince Democrats to blow off evidence of corruption.

As Republicans continue to try to navigate the tricky shoals of primary season, NRSC Chairman Sen. Jerry Moran, R-Kan., is piloting the boat for the GOP Senate leadership. In the latest edition of “Power Play with Chris Stirewalt,” Moran talks about his efforts to expand the map for the red team and shares his own dark-horse pick for November. Watch it here .

An online activist posted photos from the nursing-home room of the incapacitated wife of Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., images which the blogger apparently believed would help Cochran’s primary challenger, state Sen. Chris McDaniel, unseat the five-term incumbent in the state’s June 3 primary. Instead, the quickly deleted shots are giving Cochran backers ammunition for their allegations that McDaniel and his supporters are dodgy and dangerous . The blogger, Clayton Kelly, admitted through his lawyer to having taken the pictures through an open door at the nursing home and then briefly posting the images online. The post appeared to be in support of an effort by McDaniel’s backers outside the state to suggest that Cochran had an inappropriate relationship with a staffer. The McDaniel campaign has adamantly insisted that it has no connection with Kelly and strenuously denounced the conduct. But, as the (Jackson) Clarion-Ledger reported : “A representative of the Madison [Miss.] Police Department said there are other individuals in the case that they'd like to talk to ‘who might have been part of a conspiracy.’” Whatever happens with the investigation, though, the McDaniel campaign has already erred in its handling of the case. The candidate and campaign on Saturday expressed surprise about Kelly’s arrest and the charges, but a voice mail left with the Cochran campaign earlier that day seems to contradict that claim.

The status quo will change dramatically in Washington if Republicans are able to gain an additional six Senate seats. Which six Democrat-held seats are the most likely GOP pickups? The current consensus among readers: Arkansas, Montana, Louisiana, South Dakota, North Carolina and West Virginia.

Pence sells his ObamaCare alternative - Gov. Mike Pence, R-Ind., will push his plan for a conservative alternative to ObamaCare’s expansion of welfare programs for low-income families in an appearance at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington today. Pence is also pushing the plan in a WSJ op-ed .

Gov. Deval Patrick, D-Mass., expressed his concerns about a potential Hillary Clinton presidential bid Sunday telling CNN, “I guess I worry a little bit”  when asked about the attitude of “inevitability” surrounding her run. Patrick added the prevailing opinion that Clinton has a clear course to the White House is, “off-putting to the average voter,” warning.

Chris Stirewalt is digital politics editor for Fox News. Want FOX News First in your inbox every day? Sign up here .

Chris Stirewalt joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in July of 2010 and serves as digital politics editor based in Washington, D.C.  Additionally, he authors the daily "Fox News First” political news note and hosts “Power Play,” a feature video series, on FoxNews.com. Stirewalt makes frequent appearances on the network, including "The Kelly File," "Special Report with Bret Baier," and "Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace.”  He also provides expert political analysis for Fox News coverage of state, congressional and presidential elections.
