
The consistent slump in turnouts for European elections – from around two-thirds of voters in 1979 to two-fifths 30 years later – tells only half the story. In some countries, Euro-enthusiasm is little diminished; in others, it never took off in the first place.

In Luxembourg in 2009 more than 90% of voters cast their ballot. In Rumelange, a southern town of 5,000 people, it was 98%. Part of this may be explained by the fact that technically it is compulsory to vote in Luxembourg. But that law has not been enforced since 1964, and a more persuasive reason may be that the country has really only ever benefited from its EU involvement.

Walk through the Kirchberg region of the capital and you are struck by the number of EU institutions here: the court of justice, the court of auditors, parts of the commission and parliament, and the statistics office Eurostat. Even the European Stability Mechanism bailout fund is here. Two-thirds of people in the capital are foreigners. This is the EU made flesh, in people and buildings. And Europe is a significant economic factor too.

Many people feel Luxembourg would be a blind spot on the map if it wasn't for Europe. One survey last year asked people whether EU membership was essential to meet the challenges of the future. Seventy-eight per cent said yes, and 82% agreed that the EU was conducive for business. In short: Luxembourg is a model pupil in Euro-enthusiasm.

And yet, even in the land of Europhiles, criticism is growing. The Alternative Democratic Reform party is touting a slogan "Less Europe, more Luxembourg" in the coming elections. The party is opposed to more EU expansion "while the EU is still unsteady on its own feet", according to its candidate Roy Reding. The party is polling at 6%. Notable, but not quite enough for a seat at Strasbourg.

And there is apathy, even here. There are 200,000 non-Luxembourger EU nationals entitled to vote in these elections. So far, fewer than 20,000 have registered.

Meanwhile, in parts of eastern Slovakia in 2009, turnout barely scraped above 10%. It's not hard to figure out why. In Velke Slemence, from which you can walk into Ukraine, people feel a long, long way from Brussels.

"I've never voted," says one resident, Jonas Juraj. "I do not know anyone here who would."

People here feel more exercised about issues that Brussels can do little about, such as the border with Ukraine, which cuts the town off from its eastern neighbour and makes trade and movement between the two countries more complicated than it was in the past.

"Why should we vote?" asks Marian Horvat after returning from the Ukrainian side with some cheap groceries. "We want there to be no border controls, like it used to be in the past. But there's no chance of that. Strasbourg and Brussels can't do anything about it."

Grigory Mesežnikov, president of the Slovak Institute for Public Affairs, says there's a paradox at play: Slovaks still trust the EU institutions but don't appear moved to vote for them. "It's because European affairs are just not the main topic of public debate in Slovakia," he says.

Jerzy Buzek, the former Polish prime minister and president of the European parliament in 2009-12, says: "The problem of low turnout applies not only to Slovakia, but to the entire region of central and eastern Europe, the young democracies, which comparatively recently emerged from the communist bloc. To the west of the continent, democracy is much more rooted. Central and eastern Europe still fall short of this. But in time, voters there will catch up."

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.

Four months ago, the Guardian teamed up with five other papers from the largest EU countries to investigate the European predicament and seek to tease out solutions. We asked what the EU was for, what it did well, and where it was failing its 500 million citizens. Since then, the European fiscal crisis has deepened. The economic mayhem has left 25 million EU citizens out of work - a number that is greater than the populations of most countries in the union, a costly travesty of wasted talent and failed leadership. So, for our second collaboration, the Europa team – the Guardian, Le Monde, El País, La Stampa, Gazeta Wyborcza and Süddeutsche Zeitung – is asking what can be done to get Europe back to work.
