
Tennessee Valley Authority is preparing to enact vegetation maintenance this week on its power transmission lines in Maury and Williamson counties, and some property owners may discover the agency has easements on their property.

TVA has easements where its transmission lines are located. Agency officials must maintain vegetation near the lines to ensure it does not contact cables and interrupt service.

Transmission lines are the larger, higher-voltage lines. They are the interconnect between where power is produced and distribution lines, which provide utilities to homes.

TVA Right-of-Way Services Manager John Dooley said the maintenance program recently started in the Maury County area and will run through August. Safety is the key issue behind the endeavor, he said.

TVA operates a substation near Carters Creek Pike and U.S. Highway 31 in Columbia. Vegetation and tree maintenance will take place on the transmission lines that extend to Spring Hill and into the Franklin area.

Rural farmland will mostly be affected in Maury County, but as the lines travel into Spring Hill and Franklin, more homeowners will be approached by TVA officials.

Many property owners do not understand the easement process, and public education helps deter problems, Dooley said. TVA has right-of-way on some properties that are 100 years old, he said.

TVA will give property owners notice before any vegetation maintenance happens, but emergency situations can prompt the agency to execute its rights immediately, Dooley said.

Land owners will receive at least 14 days advanced notice before trees are trimmed or removed, he said. An information packet is left with homeowners if they are not present when TVA officials arrive.

TVA works with about 50,000 land owners each year, according to agency documents.

TVA enforces right-of-way zones to keep trees and vegetation away from power lines. Lines can sway or sag as more or less power is pumped through them. Property owners might feel their trees are a safe distance, but the line movement can cause contact, Dooley said.

TVA may allow tree species that are less than 15 feet in height when fully grown near transmission lines, but each case is considered individually, according to agency documents. Incompatible trees will be removed from right-of-ways.

TVA can be fined up to $1 million by the government for not keeping trees safely away from power lines, according to the documents.

The agency touts a 99.999 percent reliability rating since 2000, meaning power is available at that rate when a resident goes to turn on power in their homes. Acts of God are not factored into that percentage, Dooley said.

TVA manages 16,000 miles of transmission lines, which is an ongoing project, TVA spokesperson Jim Hopson said.

Trees conduct electricity even when not directly touching the lines, which can cause an explosion and subsequent power outages, Dooley said.

“If you ever see an event like this, take note of it, but get away because it is going to be bad within a few minutes,” he said.

TVA employs aerial and foot patrols to survey its transmission lines. Danger areas are corrected by bush hogging and herbicide spraying. The agency conducts ecological studies on the areas before performing the maintenance, Dooley said.

Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper. This is a public forum.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so.  Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Copyrighted materials of any sort without the express permission of the copyright holder.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.
