
Sue Miller, of Cherry Red Roasters BBQ, serves Collin Lacer, of Manteno, at the counter that uses the grill from a 1969 Pontiac Grand Prix as a base. Westmont's annual Red, White and Bar-B-Q festival kicks off on Friday.

WESTMONT – Over 100 professional and amateur grill masters will vie for a chance to hoist a coveted Red, White & Bar-B-Q trophy Memorial Day Weekend.

The eighth annual cookoff and community festival returns Friday through Sunday to Ty Warner Park, and the 2014 edition of the Red White & Bar-B-Q boasts the 160 grilling gurus competing for most prize money in event history, according to Village of Westmont Trustee Jim Addington.

"This year we have 112 professionals and 48 amateurs competing in grilling competitions," Addington said. "There are barbecue teams that travel from as far as Missouri and South Dakota to participate in this contest. I think it's a testament to the dedication and organization of our committee, and the overall fun nature of the event."

Along with Uncle Bub’s BBQ & Catering owner Mark Link, Addington, The Westmont Lions Club and the Westmont Jaycees founded the first Red White & Bar-B-Q in 2007. In the seven years since, the event has matured into the largest sanctioned Kansas City Barbecue Society competition in Illinois. A portion of the event proceeds will benefit the Westmont Lions Club.

Addington expects more than 20,000 people to attend this year's festivities, which will be highlighted by 112 professionals and 48 amateurs facing off to be crowned barbecue king.

The three-day cookoff will award more than $14,000 in prize money to amateur and professional grill masters, as pro chefs square off in four categories — ribs, chicken, beef brisket and pulled pork – while amateurs will submit only barbecued ribs.

This year, instead of a single pro contest, there will be grilling competitions on Saturday and Sunday.

Also new to the 2014 festivities will be several surprise tributes to veterans and military forces, according to event coordinator Chris Svitak.

"We will be doing a special tribute to the USO and we are really going to spend a lot of time honoring active military personnel and our veterans," Svitak said.

Admittance is free, and residents interested in escaping the haze of hundreds of grills can tour the children’s carnival, browse through jewelry at the arts and crafts show or concoct a new dish at one of the many cooking demonstrations.

The festival also will host several musical acts, including Bloody Mary, Tomorrows Alliance, Monsters of Rock, Wall of Denial, Soul City Juke Band, Cadillac Dave & His Chicago Red Hots, Slippery When Wet, Rock Academy, Harlan Flo and 4 On The Floor Country.

Before Sunday's Red, White and BBQ competition at Ty Warner Park, St. Jude Children's Hospital and the Westmont Lions Club will host the Race to the Flag 5k Run/Walk.

Copyright © 2014 mySuburbanLife.com. All rights reserved. Published in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.
