
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 8:16 pm | Updated: 10:31 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

RICHMOND — Jim Webb, who left the U.S. Senate after representing Virginia for one term, said in a Washington radio interview Monday that he's thinking of running for president.

Webb, 68, a highly decorated Vietnam veteran, former Secretary of the Navy and author of 10 books, appeared on "The Diane Rehm Show" on WAMU radio to discuss his memoir titled "I Heard my Country Calling."

Guest host Susan Page noted that two callers had said they hope Webb will run for president. Page asked the Democrat whether he would consider doing so.

"We're — Hong and I — my wife and I are just thinking about what to do next," Webb said. "And I care a lot about where the country is, and we'll be sorting that out."

The host told Webb that his non-denial would be seen as an expression of interest.

"Well, if you look at how I ran for the Senate, you know, I announced nine months to the day before the [2006] election with no money and no campaign staff," Webb said.

"When I — it takes me a while to decide things. And I haven't — I'm not going to say one way or the other, really."

Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is widely viewed as a strong favorite for the Democratic presidential nomination should she decide to run.

Webb said he is not interested in being vice president and that "it wouldn't be a good fit for me."

Webb served as a Marine infantry officer in Vietnam and was awarded the Navy Cross, the Silver Star, two Bronze Stars and two Purple Hearts.

He moved to Washington as a lawyer for the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, and later served under President Ronald Reagan as an undersecretary of defense and secretary of the Navy.

Webb's signature achievement in the Senate was a new GI Bill of Rights. He also took the lead in foreign policy outreach to Southeast Asia. Webb bowed out after one term and was succeeded by Sen. Timothy M. Kaine, D-Va.

During the interview Monday, Webb offered a critique of the Obama administration's foreign policy.

"I think we have become frustrated because people can't see a clear expression of what our national security interests are, which would calm a lot of people down in terms of what we're doing around the world," he said. "And I think that same principle applies here at home.

He added: "The thing that concerns me the most is that we are kind of bouncing from issue to issue without a clear articulation of what the national security interest of the United States actually is."

Webb would not say whether Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, secretary of Veterans Affairs, should be replaced following reports that veterans had died while waiting for care in Phoenix.

"I'm not going to make a comment on that, but I think we definitely need more aggressive leadership to solve these problems," he said.

Posted in News , Local , State on Monday, May 19, 2014 8:16 pm. Updated: 10:31 pm.
