
If AT&T’s acquisition of DirecTV is approved by regulators and Time Warner Cable’s deal with Comcast goes through, roughly half of U.S. households could end up getting their Internet access and television service from two giant companies.

On Sunday, AT&T Inc. T, +0.03%   announced that it will buy satellite-television provider DirecTV DTV, +1.09%   for $67.1 billion in a stock-and-cash deal, including the latter’s debt. The new, combined company will offer consumers bundles that include video, high-speed broadband and mobile services, AT&T said in a statement.

“This is just the beginning of the next wave of industry consolidation of television and Internet,” says technology consultant Jeff Kagan.

AT&T's move to buy DirecTV could boost AT&T's financials but what will the impact on consumers be? MarketWatch's Quentin Fottrell joins the News Hub with Sara Murray. Photo: Getty Images.

And nearly 50% of U.S. households would get their television service from one of these merged companies if both deals go through, says Michael Hodel, equity strategist at Morningstar.

As bigger companies bundle services, Kagan says cable bills will continue to climb. The average bill for cable hovers at around $90 a month and will hit $200 a month in 2020, according to The NPD Group. The cost of cable television doubles roughly every 10 years, Kagan says.

Fewer cable companies would mean fewer choices for consumers. “The whole idea of a la carte television and Internet is never going to happen,” Rayburn says. And consolidation is unlikely to stop the rise in cable bills every year. “The industry needs more competition, not more mergers,” says John Bergmayer, senior staff attorney at consumer-advocacy group Public Knowledge.

But others say customers could get more bang for their buck. “The new (AT&T/DirecTV) company would sell bundled TV and telephone service, reducing costs and hassles,” says William Rinehart, director of technology and innovation policy at the American Action Forum, a center-right policy institute.

Ultimately, consumers will have fewer choices when it comes to Internet and TV services. Two giant mergers could also give the Federal Communications Commission a “bargaining chip” to push Internet service providers and cable companies to preserve net neutrality, Hodel adds. “This (merger) activity is negative for consumers, but adequate regulatory oversight can offset this,” Hodel says. Net neutrality suffered a blow last week, however, when the FCC voted to propose “net neutrality” rules that could allow Internet service providers to charge content providers like Netflix NFLX, +0.36%  , YouTube GOOG, -0.41%   and Hulu for faster and higher delivery of their traffic to users.

Here’s a tally of their subscriptions: AT&T has around 11.3 million broadband connections: 5.7 million for U-verse pay-TV service and the rest for high-speed Internet access; DirecTV has more than 20 million pay-TV customers in the U.S. (and over 18 million customers in Latin America); DirecTV doesn’t offer an Internet service. Time Warner Cable TWC, +1.04%   has approximately 11 million video subscribers and Comcast CMCSA, +0.87%   has 22.6 million video customers. Because many consumers purchase cable “bundles,” most of the Time Warner and Comcast video subscribers also are Internet subscribers.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
