
Officer Rosa Rodriguez suffered carbon monoxide poisoning, which killed her partner Dennis Guerra, and left her hospitalized after an April arson allegedly caused by 16-year-old Marcell Dockery. But as she left New York-Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell Monday, she was eager to get back to work — though it may be months, even years before she can — and to be reunited with her children.

Susan Watts/New York Daily News Police Officer Rosa Rodriguez is released from New York-Presbyterian Hospital on Monday after being overcome by smoke in a Brooklyn elevator when she and partner Dennis Guerra were responding to a fire.

There were pipes and drums, applauding police officers, and big shots such as Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bill Bratton cheering her on.

But what brought a smile to Officer Rosa Rodriguez’s face was the sight of her darling daughters with matching police caps on their heads and big smiles on their pretty faces.

Amy Tavarez, 11, and her 9-year-old sister, Abby, were a sight for Rodriguez’s sore eyes Monday as she was released from the hospital more than a month after nearly being killed by a deliberately set fire.

Dressed in her police jacket and still attached to an oxygen tank, a tearful Rodriguez clutched a bouquet and whispered “Thank you” repeatedly as she was wheeled out of New York-Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell hospital.

But also among the well-wishers was the widow and kin of Rodriguez’s partner, Officer Dennis Guerra, and they were wearing pins with the image of the slain cop on them.

“Today is a very happy and exciting day for the Rodriguez family as well as for her police family,” Deputy NYPD Inspector Carlos Valdez said.

Rodriguez, the inspector said, is raring to get back to work.

But Rodriguez’s doctor said her lungs were ravaged by carbon monoxide and it will be months — if not years — before she is completely healed.

NYPD Hispanic Society via Facebo Officer Rosa Rodriguez was critically injured in the arson fire at a Coney Island apartment building in April.

“I suppose there’s a possibility she'll never be 100%,” Dr. Palmer Bessey said.

“I think physically she can,” he said.

The question is whether Rodriguez will want to after what happened to her and Guerra.

@CommissBratton via Twitter A photo tweeted by NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton.

“It really changes your perspective on the world and what you can and cannot do,” the doctor said.

Rodriguez and Guerra landed in the hospital in April after they were overcome by smoke from a fire in a Coney Island housing project that was set allegedly by a teenage firebug.

Guerra, 38, a married father-of-four, died several days later from his injuries.

Rodriguez, 36, who also has two older sons, was given just a 50% chance of surviving when she was brought in critical condition to New York-Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell.

Rodriguez is pushed in a wheelchair as she leaves Weill Cornell Medical Center to cheers and applause from fellow officers.

One of Rodriguez's daughters proceeds her as she is wheeled out of the medical center.

Dollars and cents may also figure into Rodriguez’s decision on whether she returns to the job. She was hired after July 2009, when a new disability pension law went into effect that cut it from three-quarters of an injured officer’s final year’s salary to half.

Now Rodriguez faces the possibility of being the first NYPD officer to receive a reduced disability, which in her case would mean about $26,600 in tax-free pay, said Public Advocate Letitia James.

“Our goal should be to restore state law so police and firefighter pensions go back to pre-2009 levels,” said James.

While Rodriguez was heading home to Queens and an uncertain future, 16-year-old Marcell Dockery remained behind bars.

Dockery told cops he torched a mattress in the hallway of his building because he “was bored,” has been charged with second-degree murder.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
