
Hesthavn Nature Center and a surrounding 5-acre sanctuary at 8590 N.W. Oak Creek Drive. The center functions as a museum for wildlife specimens, educational facility and meeting place.  For more information, see www.audubon.corvallis.or.us .

The Corvallis nonprofit has eight groups homes serving adults with intellectual and developmental disabitlies.

Another 16 adults live indepently through Home Life’s supportive living program. Home Life also operates a small vocational program.

For more information about Home Life, call 541-753-9015 or see homelifeinc.org .

Natural Areas Celebration Week started May 3, and although an event organized by the Audubon Society of Corvallis that Saturday at E.E. Wilson Wildlife Area wasn’t part of the celebration, it sure fit the bill.

The local organization put together a morning of discovery and refreshments for clients of Home Life, a Corvallis-based nonprofit that operates eight group homes for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities.

Audubon member John Gaylord attended the annual Christmas pageant put on last December by Home Life and The Arc, and decided then that he would coordinate an Audubon event for Home Life clients.

It was a cool and cloudy morning with intermittent showers May 3, but five Homeclients, along with staff members and supporters, a wildlife biologist, Audubon members and a reporter, all had a good time during the hour-and-a-half outing.

The activities were centered around the E.E. Wilson viewing area off Camp Area Road close to the cluster of monuments honoring the four World War II Army divisions that trained at the vast Camp Adair cantonment.

The morning’s first stop were the cages that house injured and non-native birds, mostly pheasants, that can’t make it on their own.

Tracy Thompson, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife wildlife area associate at E.E. Wilson, held an ornate, 3-year-old ringneck pheasant for the visitors to get a close look and touch.

“It’s beautiful,” said Home Life client Delano Devaud.

Wilson noted that the wildlife area hasn’t had a pheasant-breeding operation for years. The pheasants used for the annual fall youth hunt at E.E. Wilson are a bred elsewhere and trucked in.

As the visitors made their way to the next activity, a large bird flew south overhead.

“What cleans up the highways?” he asked.

“Turkey vultures,” Delano replied, correctly identifying the bird that soon flew out of view.

“We better get him in the club,” Gaylord said.

Next stop was a table with mountings of male and female wood ducks, a bobcat and a scrub jay. Audubon member Will Wright did all the taxidermy, a skill he learned back in college. The bobcat, he said, got hit by a car. The birds had either been hit by vehicles or had struck windows. Wright, a third- and-fourth-grade teacher at Monroe Grade School, said the mountings provide good educational models and are always popular with kids at his school. That proved to be the same with the Home Life clients, who especially liked touching the bobcat.

For a longer view, Wright set up his spotting scope and focused it on a barn owl, also a mounting, about 50 yards away. Everyone took turns getting a close-up view through the scope.

The owl reminded Thompson of a story from a few years ago at E.E. Wilson.

Northern flicker, tree swallow, double-crested cormorant, barn swallow, common yellow-throated warbler and red-breasted sapsucker, according to Audubon members Rana Foster, Teri Enbring, Suzanne Ortiz and Wright. (See 4 Things Tuneup on this page).

During a snack break, Gaylord’s wife, Jody, served up fresh strawberries, bananas, oranges, apples and grapes, along with animal crackers and apple juice.

After the break, the group walked a ways to the day’s final activity, a tree planting.

already in the ground.

Gaylord noted that a white oak is native to the mid-valley and takes about 200 year to fully mature. “This tree is going to be around longer than we are,” he said.

Home Life clients Bonnie Wald, Tom Brittsan, Cindy Volkers and David Bortz and others took turns shoveling soil into the hole, and Thompson made sure it was properly packed.

In front of the tree is a plaque donated by R3 engraving of Corvallis.

Gaylord thanked everyone for participating and predicted there would be more Audubon Society-Home Life outings.

“I hope this is the first of many to come,” he said.

In addition to Second Saturday field trips and bicycle birding (for details about this month’s events, see the calendar on page 2), the organization offers other fields trips, as well as work parties and birding resources. It also operates Hesthavn Nature Center and a surrounding 5-acre sanctuary at 8590 N.W. Oak Creek Drive. The center functions as a museum for wildlife specimens, educational facility and meeting place.  For more information, see www.audubon.corvallis.or.us .

The Corvallis nonprofit has eight groups homes serving adults with intellectual and developmental disabitlies.

Another 16 adults live indepently through Home Life’s supportive living program. Home Life also operates a small vocational program.

For more information about Home Life, call 541-753-9015 or see homelifeinc.org .

Copyright 2014 Albany Democrat Herald. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Quick notification of big news. Delivered when news breaks (used sparingly).

Get updates about the Beaver sports. Delivered 3 times a week.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
