
Your Fairfax Membership account setup is complete. We are redirecting    you now. Please use this email "      " to log in to the Financial Review in the future.

Unprecedented criminal charges laid against five Chinese military officers for ­allegedly hacking companies and stealing commercial secrets have escalated tensions between the world’s only superpower and its emerging rival.

The United States Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of ­Investigation attempted to internationally shame China over the cyber crime allegations, by publicly releasing the names and photographs of the accused military officers.

The indictment published in Washington claims that for the past eight years a sophisticated unit of the ­People’s Liberation Army secretly monitored corporate emails, stole confidential pricing information, pilfered intellectual property and transmitted viruses to damage computers belonging to US competitors of Chinese state-owned enterprises.

The cyber acts were committed against major US companies and a trade union operating in the power, metals and solar products industries.

The cyber security expert who more than a year ago first publicly blew the whistle on Chinese economic ­espionage against 141 companies, ­suggested that past experience showed the offending military team, known as Unit 61398, was unlikely to be deterred.

The Chinese government ­im­mediately labelled the allegations as “fabricated facts” and reminded the world of former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden’s revelations that US spies wiretapped foreign political leaders and ­companies. Acutely aware of the ­potential for hypocrisy criticisms, the US made a concerted effort to distinguish between legitimate intelligence gathering for national security purposes and spying for unfair commercial gain. It is the first time a foreign government official has been charged with ­economic espionage or cyber crimes in America.

US Attorney-General Eric Holder said an “aggressive response” was demanded because of the range of trade secrets and other sensitive ­business information stolen.

The initiation of legal action against Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui, is largely symbolic.

The five men, who operate out of an office in Shanghai, are highly unlikely to come to the US to defend the 31 charges that carry a maximum penalty for each charge of between two and 15 years in prison.

The criticism of China’s business ethics follows pressure from Congress members and President Barack Obama’s warning last year that theft of corporate secrets by foreign countries was “a real threat to our security as well as to our economy”.

The public outing of widespread ­economic espionage risks inflaming tensions between the US and China, which is already flexing its muscles over territorial disputes with US allies in the South China Sea.

The world’s two biggest economies are already at loggerheads over China’s alleged undervalued currency, which the US has repeatedly claimed is causing its big trade deficit and adding to imbalances in the world economy.

The charges were announced in the US on Monday, on the eve of a visit to China by Russian President and US foe Vladimir Putin.

Geopolitical analysts said the charges may further bond China and Russia in their shared rivalry against America. “Thinking strategically, I would avoid going out of my way to annoy the Chinese just before Putin’s big visit,” said Eurasia Group president Ian Bremmer.

The alleged victims of the economic espionage were Westinghouse Electric, aluminium producer Alcoa, the biggest American steel company US Steel, SolarWorld, Allegheny Technologies and the country’s largest trade union United Steelworkers.

In one of several examples that occurred between 2006 and last year detailed by US authorities, SolarWorld was rapidly losing its market share to Chinese competitors that were pricing exports well below costs. At the same time, Chinese hackers were stealing cost, pricing and strategy information from SolarWorld’s computers.

In another case, when Westinghouse was negotiating with a Chinese state-owned enterprise over the construction of nuclear power plants, the hackers allegedly stole trade secret designs for components of those plants.

In response to the charges, China has pulled out of a cyber security working group with the US following Washington’s decision.

In a statement, China Foreign ­Ministry spokeswoman Qin Gang said the US claims were “groundless” and jeopardised the bilateral relationship.

“It is a fact known to all that relevant US institutions have long been involved in large-scale and organised cyber theft as well as wiretapping and ­surveillance activities against foreign political ­leaders, companies and ­individuals,” she said.

China’s State Internet Information Office also released a raft of data about alleged US hacking activities.

The ensuing Snowden revelations show that US intelligence agencies worked directly with leading private companies, including Microsoft, Intel, Facebook, Google, ATT and Cisco, when carrying out foreign espionage.
