
FORT WORTH — On May 3, Ashley Yates should have been surrounded by friends, dancing at her prom.

The senior at Boswell High School had already chosen the perfect gown, with a black sweetheart neckline and full white tulle skirt.

But a relapse of mononucleosis, coupled with a recent diagnosis of fibromyalgia and vestibular migraines, changed her plans. Yates, 18, stayed home, avoiding social media because she felt sad seeing photos of her friends in their dresses and tuxedos.

A straight-A student and member of Student Council, Yates missed four months of school this year because of illness. Fibromyalgia is characterized by chronic and widespread pain, fatigue and joint stiffness. She gets weak and sometimes needs a wheelchair. Severe exhaustion has forced her to complete school from home.

Friends at Boswell wanted to cheer her up with a small prom at one of their homes, so Amanda Case, a senior at Boswell High, called Kid Kraddick in the Morning to ask for help.

The radio show jumped in, arranging for the Omni Fort Worth to host the prom, securing a DJ and even flying in Yates’ boyfriend, Jeshua Barnes, who recently moved to Casper, Wyo.

Barnes said the illness has been difficult on Yates, who plans to attend Colorado State University in the fall and wants to become a physician’s assistant.

Yates and her boyfriend were crowned prom king and queen before they danced briefly to their song, Carolina, by Parmalee.

Yates is scheduled to go on Kidd Kraddick in the Morning on 106.1 KISS FM today to talk about the prom and thank those who made it happen.

Ashley Yates, looking up at her boyfriend, Joshua Barnes, is surrounded by friends on the dance floor during a surprise prom thrown for her at the Fort Worth Omni Sunday, May 18, 2014.

We welcome your comments on this story, but please be civil. Do not use profanity, hate speech, threats, personal abuse, images, internet links or any device to draw undue attention. Our policy requires those wishing to post here to use their real identity.
