
The fifth round of Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) negotiations will go on all week this week in Arlington, Virginia. EU Chief Negotiator Ignacio Garcia Bercero and his team traveled to DC on Monday to meet with US Chief Negotiator Dan Mullaney and a delegation from the US Trade Representative's office. This is the first round of negotiations since March, but parties on both sides of the Atlantic have made clear that interest and dedication to the TTIP negotiations remains strong. Stakeholders met in Brussels in March and again in Berlin in April to discuss in detail the potential challenges and benefits to a comprehensive trade agreement.

The two negotiation teams will convene starting Monday, May 19. Topics of the fifth round of negotiations include electronic commerce and telecommunications, sanitary measures, and intellectual property rights, among other things. On Wednesday, halfway through the negotiations, the teams will meet with a group of stakeholders – including businesspeople, climate experts and elected officials – to address comments and concerns. Bercero and Mullaney will end the week with a joint press conference to examine the progress of the talks.

For negotiators on both sides of the table, it is a priority to maintain as much transparency as possible about the progress and the content of the TTIP talks. Starting with the second round of negotiations, Bercero and Mullaney have met regularly with stakeholders at open-forum events to make sure that every citizen has a voice. Registration for stakeholder meetings is open to everyone who wishes to make a presentation.

In July 2013, when the talks began, the EU released a position paper regarding the major topics of the trade deal. Recently, in an effort to push this transparency even further, the EU published their revised negotiating points after almost a year of TTIP negotiations. The position papers focus on how the EU proposes to deal with regulatory questions, such as how to prevent unnecessary duplication of product testing or inspecting. Maintaining a dialogue with citizens of the EU and US is a key factor in developing a trade deal that works for everyone, and publishing their positions early allows for a more open dialogue about the progress of TTIP.

The latest report on the effects of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership indicates the potential for strong economic gains from coast to coast. As many as 740,000 jobs could be created in the US alone.

With TTIP, the EU and the U.S. will strive to negotiate the most comprehensive and largest bilateral trade and investment agreement ever.
