
Awards for teaching were presented to three full-time faculty members at Pennsylvania College of Technology during commencement ceremonies held May 16 and 17 at the Community Arts Center, Williamsport.

As part of the Distinguished Teaching Awards program, Penn College President Davie Jane Gilmour presented the Veronica M. Muzic Master Teacher Award to Dorothy M. Mathers, associate professor of medical-surgical nursing.

Excellence in Teaching Awards were presented to Peter B. Kruppenbacher, assistant professor of building construction technology, and Kevin R. Derr, professor of legal assistant studies.

The Distinguished Teaching Awards are presented to full-time faculty at Penn College who have been nominated by their students and colleagues for excellence in instructional performance. Since the program’s inception in 1982, awards have been presented to 95 honorees (30 Master Teacher and 65 Excellence in Teaching).

The Veronica M. Muzic Master Teacher Award – renamed in 2006 in honor of its first recipient – is the most prestigious of the college’s faculty tributes.

Mathers, of Montoursville, also received an Excellence in Teaching Award from the college in 2009. She holds a doctor of nursing practice degree from Chatham University, a master’s degree in nursing from College Misericordia, a bachelor’s degree in nursing from Eastern Washington University and an associate degree in nursing from Northampton Community College.

She has taught medical-surgical nursing full time at Penn College since 1994 and part time from 1991-94. Previously, she worked as a staff nurse at hospitals in Pennsylvania and Washington.

Excellence in Teaching awards are presented annually to full-time faculty members who have been nominated by their students and colleagues for excellence in instructional performance.

Kruppenbacher, of Linden, earned a bachelor’s degree in vocational-technical education from The State University of New York at Oswego and is working toward a master’s degree in educational development and strategies from Wilkes University. He received an associate degree in occupational studies, building construction from SUNY Agricultural and Technical College at Alfred.

He has taught building construction technology at Penn College since 2008. Previously, he taught in the building trades program at SUNY College of Technology at Delhi and Delaware-Chenango BOCES. He has also served in a supervisory capacity for a variety of construction firms and owned his own company.

Derr, of Williamsport, is a repeat winner of the Excellence in Teaching honor, having received it in 1992. He holds advanced degrees from Dickinson School of Law and a bachelor’s degree in political science from Indiana University of Pennsylvania.

He began teaching at Penn College in 1990. Previously, he served as an adjunct faculty member at several institutions and worked as an attorney in private practice.

In her commencement remarks, Gilmour praised the faculty honorees for their commitment to the teaching profession.

Excellence in Teaching Award recipient Kevin R. Derr with Penn College President Davie Jane Gilmour.

Excellence in Teaching Award recipient Peter B. Kruppenbacher with Penn College President Davie Jane Gilmour.
