
Celebrate Avant for Men's Grand Opening Event: Cocktail Party with Scotch Tasting, Appetizers, Personalized Shopping and More on May 21, 4-8pm.

Avant for Men, Highland Park's premium men's specialty store is hosting a Grand Opening event to celebrate their new location and to introduce luxury apparel and accessories purveyor Robert Talbott's new "shop-in-shop" retail concept.

To mark the occasion, a cocktail party and personalized shopping experience is planned for Wednesday, May 21st from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Avant for Men's retail store, located at 1849 Green Bay Road in Highland Park's Renaissance Place.

This is the second "shop-in-shop" retail concept launched by Robert Talbott this Spring, which is part of an overall retail strategy to offer consumers a more personalized experience with the brand's collection, lifestyle and inspiration. Robert Talbott will continue establishing shop-in-shop areas in several other premium independent retailers across the country.

The "shop-in-shop" area in Avant for Men is approximately 500 square feet to allow for the full display of Robert Talbott's collections. It is designed to include elements that reflect the brand's artistic and meticulous approach to its business and products.  The branded areas will feature large imagery of the Monterey Peninsula, hardwood flooring, and fixtures that offer consumers a sophisticated shopping experience.

"Our customers appreciate finely-made menswear, and we are thrilled to provide them with this opportunity to experience the Robert Talbott brand.  The attention-to-detail and elegant stylings exhibited in Robert Talbott's apparel and accessories makes the brand an ideal fit with our customers," commented Ollie Galam, owner of Avant for Men. "We strive to provide our customers with superior retail experiences, from offering personalized tailoring services to having an expert team of sales staff, and the Robert Talbott "shop-in-shop" will enhance that tremendously."

Robert Talbott will serve wines from Talbott Vineyards and hors d'oeuvres during the event, and invite visitors to enjoy a scotch tasting.  Additionally, Razny Jewelers, a prestigious local jeweler, will be showcasing Rolex and Breitling watches.  Attendees will also preview Robert Talbott's full Spring/Summer 2014 Collection, including dress shirts, sportswear, neckwear and accessories.

"The introduction of our first "shop-in-shop" was a huge success.  We received excellent feedback from both the retailer and consumers, and are excited to continue expanding into other stores," commented Bob Corliss, President and CEO of Robert Talbott, Inc. "Avant for Men is one of Chicago's most distinguished retailers, making this a great fit for the Robert Talbott shop-in-shop initiative.  It will provide customers with a unique opportunity to personally experience the Robert Talbott lifestyle brand without being on the Monterey Peninsula."
