
Reducing water consumption by thermal power plants is not a fail-safe solution to resolving water problems in Texas, experts told the audience Monday during the 2014 Texas Water Summit in Austin.

Reducing water consumption by thermal power plants is not a fail-safe solution to resolving water problems in Texas, experts told the audience Monday during the 2014 Texas Water Summit in Austin.

"Thermal power plants can largely operate without water, but it would not be the most economic saving of water since retrofitting is usually infeasible," said Carey King , assistant director at University of Texas at Austin's Energy Institute and one of the speakers at the "Sector-Based Use and Conservation" panel on Monday afternoon. "Water is a good, consumptive use in power plants."

The summit was organized by the Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas to identify key issues pertaining to the management, conservation and usage of water across the state.

Panelist Todd Langford of General Electric Power & Water said when commercial institutions and industries worry about the cost of water, they are concerned about water management costs, not just the cost of the water itself. Some 55 percent of all water usage annually in Texas is for the industrial, commercial and institutional sectors.

"We're not referring to the cost of opening the tap to get a gallon of water, but we are referring to the costs of transporting and storing, treatment and brine disposal," Langford said. "One has to also consider the risks associated with each of these."

When deciding whether to reuse and recycle water, companies have to understand that every project and every region of the country has a unique technical solution in order to create the best water management plan.

Some states, like Pennsylvania, have high reuse capabilities, but that may not be true for Texas, said panelist Jean-Philippe Nicot , research scientist at the Jackson School of Geosciences at UT.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
