
This past winter’s brutal weather pushed back the completion date for a trail stretching from U.S. 33 to Gate 5 at the Elkhart County 4-Hair Fairgrounds.

Posted on May 19, 2014 at 6:07 p.m.

GOSHEN — The completion date for the Monroe Street Trail near the Elkhart County 4-H Fairgrounds has been pushed back to next month.

Construction of the trail stretching from U.S. 33 to Gate 5 at the fairgrounds is scheduled to wrap up by June 16, though city civil engineer Mary Cripe says railroad work in the area could cause more delays. The original completion date for the project was Dec. 6, 2013.

Cripe told the Goshen Board of Public Works and Safety on Monday, May 19, that construction lagged behind because of this past winter’s brutal weather. Selge Construction met in March with the Indiana Department of Transportation , consultant JPR and the city to discuss concerns about the frozen ground conditions at the site. They decided to monitor the heavy frost and begin work when conditions improved. Work began April 10.

The board approved a change order Monday for roughly $10,213 for the reconstruction of the drive approach at Gate 3 to the fairgrounds, which serves as an entrance and exit for livestock trailers.

Cripe said she was not sure whether the flaw was an oversight by the designer.

The modification will bring the total cost of the trail project up to $861,880. The majority of the project is covered by state transportation enhancement funds, and about 20 percent is locally funded.

The board awarded a contract to C&E Excavating for the River Race Drive construction project from Douglas Street to Jefferson Street for roughly $1.85 million. The redevelopment commission is funding the project with money generated by the U.S. 33/River Race Tax Increment Financing, or TIF, District. C&E Excavating had the lowest bid out of five firms that made offers for the project.

The board approved a $12,450 change order for the Dickerson Landing Phase III project. The change ordered included the cost of a tree removal at 407 New St., adding a drop to the existing sanitary sewer at New and Wilkinson streets and adding a storm manhole at the intersection. The total contract price, including the change order, is $206,103.

The board signed a plant for the River Race subdivision, which establishes four lots between Madison and Douglas streets, west of Third Street to the Millrace Canal. The Goshen Redevelopment Commission has agreements in place to transfer one lot to Matthews LLC and a second lot to Millrace Neighborhood LLC . The city will retain ownership of two lots for greenspace.

Niblock Excavating will close Chicago Avenue from Harrison Street to Indiana Avenue for about two months beginning Tuesday, May 27, for the reconstruction of Chicago Avenue.

The city’s engineering department plans to seek bids for improvements in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act at seven intersections. The bids for the project will be due June 9.

The board granted summer sewer rates for Creekside Estates and Roxbury Park manufactured housing communities. The board did not allow summer sewer rates for Brookside Manor because of the community’s inaccurate metering system.

The board voted to demolish two houses if the owners fail to come into compliance with Goshen city code. The homes are located at 401 E. Jefferson St. and 307 and 307 ½ S. Seventh St.

The board approved the creation of a new inspector position for the Goshen Fire Department. If approved by the city council Tuesday, May 20, the employee will earn roughly $43,000 annually.

The board agreed to a memorandum of understanding with Elkhart County and the city of Elkhart to for the 2014 Edward Bryne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Formula Program Award. Each entity will receive $10,687.

The board accepted an easement from First Brethren Church of Goshen north of the building at 215 W. Clinton St. where fiber optic cable will be installed.

The board approved right-of-way use for the 2014 Ride of Silence Bike Ride , an event that honors cyclist who were injured or killed by drivers. The bike ride will be at 7 p.m. Wednesday, May 21, beginning and ending at Lincoln Avenue Cycling, 430 W. Lincoln Ave. in Goshen.

The westbound lane of Lincoln Avenue will be closed in front of 711 W. Lincoln Avenue between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Thursday, May 22, and Friday, May 23, to allow a crew to use scaffolding in the street while new siding is installed on an awning.

Follow Elkhart Truth reporter Angelle Barbazon on Twitter at @tweetangelle .
