
Two items regarding potential water supplies for San Angelo will be rehashed at this week’s City Council meeting: the wastewater reuse study and the Red Arroyo feasibility study.

Water utilities staff will again ask the council on Tuesday to consider awarding a $189,965 study to Alan Plummer Associates to study alternatives for water reuse.

The request previously was brought before the council May 6 but was tabled because some on the council weren’t so sure about the almost $190,000 price tag on the study.

Once developed, city staff estimates reclaimed water could provide up to 6 million or 7 million gallons per day of additional supply for San Angelo, according to a city memo. This could supply about half the city’s daily use.

According to the memo, the project can be funded through the Wastewater Capital Improvements budget. Water utilities staff also will bring more information from its meetings on the proposed Red Arroyo water capture project — but staff is recommending more investigation on the groundwater’s impact on estimated construction costs, according to the memo.

The project initially was proposed by the Upper Colorado River Authority, to capture water from the Red Arroyo. After hearing conflicting engineering opinions, the council asked city staff to further explore the feasibility of the project.

After meeting with multiple consultants in the past couple of months, staff will give an update at Tuesday’s meeting.

“(Tuesday’s) presentation will focus on the tasks required to determine the extent of groundwater present under the site and its impact on the storage basin’s construction costs,” the memo states.

Estimated costs for additional investigation by HDR Engineering, based in Omaha, Nebraska, and international firm Jacobs Engineering, total about $111,4000 plus damages, according to the memo.

The city clerk will administer the oaths of office for the members elected in May to represent Single Member Districts 1, 3 and 5.

Finance staff will present alternative options for funding street reconstruction and maintenance, as requested by the council at the May 6 meeting.

Water utilities staff also will lead a discussion on possible amendments to the water rate schedule, as requested by Councilman Rodney Fleming.

Budget staff will present the first public hearing for a $510,842 amendment to the fiscal year 2013-14 budget for items including public information PEG improvements, equipment replacement, vehicle maintenance, software purchase and Fort Concho Stables air-conditioning installation.

Staff will ask for the council’s acceptance of the city’s fiscal year 2012-13 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Single Audit.

Staff will present the first public hearing for an ordinance creating standards for outdoor lighting to minimize nuisance on residential properties.

Engineering staff will request authorization to negotiate an agreement with Freese and Nichols for stormwater engineering services not to exceed $100,000 per year out of the city’s stormwater program. The city is required to maintain the program after it adopted the Storm Water Management Plan in 2007 as a result of a federal mandate, a city memo states.

Ready to subscribe to the San Angelo Standard-Times? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-304-7763.
