
"Perhaps our European and US friends don't understand that we   supported the Ukrainian economy...via artificially   underestimating gas and other resource prices, granting Ukraine   loans, etc. For the last twenty years, we invested around $200   billion," the minister said in exclusive interview to RT.

Ulyukaev emphasized that it is difficult to predict further   development, but Moscow is interested in the stabilization of the   situation in Ukraine.

"Anyways, Russia is interested in a peaceful and prosperous   Ukraine. We will continue to search the way out of the Ukrainian   crisis, and will orient on all regions and all social groups   which shall define the future by their selves," Ulyukaev   said.

"It’s quite possible that it will force us to reconsider the   duties and the collections systems, which exist at present   between Ukraine and the countries of the Customs Union, such as   Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan," Ulyukaev concluded.

In April, Russian President Vladimir Putin estimated Russian help to Ukraine in the form   of underestimated gas prices for the past four years at $35.4   billion. He reminded that under contracts signed in 2009, Ukraine   received 147.2 billion cubic meters of gas from Russia.

Thus after signing the document, Kiev received some discounts –   in particular within the Kharkov agreements of 2010, and also the   agreements of November 2013. As a result of these two privileges,   gas prices for Kiev fell in the first quarter of 2014 to $268.5.   However, it jumped to $485 in April, after the cancelation of the Black   Sea hosting deal.

It is important for Ukrainians to understand who their real friends are.  The U.S. and the EU have no interest in Ukraine apart from lining their own pockets.

They have already bought and paid for the political and business classes but they cannot afford to prop up the economy because they are broke.  In time this reality will penetrate the consciousness of ordinary Ukrainians, if indeed it has not already done so.

Donetsk would be Kiev's worst mistake yet. The 'mighty' maidan staffed Ukr Army will find itself as powerless as the Shia  staffed Iraqi Army against the wave of bombings that regularly sweeps Iraq. Better to leave Donetsk alone then to send those people underground even more angry at the west. Kiev needs someone to talk with & those are the people in Donetsk!

email before you can log in.

successfully!
