
As conservative Republicans battle establishment candidates in primary races across the nation, it is clear that the fight for America’s future is not limited to interparty disagreements. As Alaskan Joe Miller has proven during his second U.S. Senate campaign, there are plenty of disagreements between members of the GOP.

A Tea Party favorite, Miller called out two opponents in a recent statement lambasting their positions on anthropogenic climate change.

As former Arctic Research Commission chairman and former assistant secretary of state respectively, both candidates have expressed a desire to implement decisive steps to halt the ostensible effects of the much-disputed climatological phenomenon.

Sullivan, he noted, made numerous references to climate change as a State Department official.

“In them,” Miller claimed, “he unequivocally accepted the premise that climate change is man-caused and embraced numerous mitigation strategies” to combat the issue.

To bolster his own position, Miller included in his statement a reference to an Alaska Climate Research Center study released in 2012 that shows the state’s climate actually cooled significantly between 2000 and 2010.

In issues such as global warming, the stark differences within the GOP – along with similarities between moderate Republicans and the Democrat platform – are on full display.

An award-winning journalist, B. Christopher Agee spent more than a decade building a career in newspaper and radio. He is currently the senior staff writer at Western Center for Journalism. Chris is the author of two books and is a frequent guest on talk radio shows across the U.S. He lives with his wife, Nancy, in Phoenix, Ariz.

Joe Miller is just a shill for big oil.  Don’t fall for his conspiracy theories.  Vote for anyone but him.

Wait long enough and the 1,000 Coal fired plants that China is making at the rate of one per week will overwhelm anything the USA does.

But make it illegal for the USA to use USA Coal and Harry Reid who is an “Honorary citizen of Red China” will sell all USA Coalt ot China and he will become an “Extraordinay citizen of China.

We need to stop with all of this man caused climate change nonsense and stop trying to reverse the damage already done. We need to start investing in “disaster rehabilitation” companies that can restore homes destroyed by hurricanes such as Sandy. I think that one was only 60 billion dollars. We need to invest in “mass relocation companies” that can ship, bus, truck, train, or fly hundreds of thousands of coastal residents who will be flooded out of their cities. I think we can do this for 2, maybe 3 trillion dollars. Of course those who aren’t residents of our country are on their own. This would be the smartest approach since it would allow us to continue our present practices of coal powered energy and we can stop telling China and India to stop using coal since we are using it too. One thing we aren’t, is hypocrites.

Global Climate Lying is getting pretty “Thin”.  The data for Global LYING has been Hacked and faked and ALL know it.

Fact 1:    The Earth’s Temperature has NOT INCREASED IN 17 years.

Fact 2: The Sea Ice in the Arctic has tripled Just this last year.

From 600,000 to 1.6 million square miles this last year.

Fact 3: The Sear Ice in Antarctica has Tripled this last year.

Fact 4: Al Gore bought a Seaside home in San Diego that is at Sea Level +7 feet.

Fact 5 Al Gore flies a business jet, G5, I think that uses more fuel per person mile than any Boeing or other Big jet.

Fact Al Gore has made Hundreds of Millions of Dollars in the Carbon Credit Scam.

Texas shutting down 4 coal fired Plants does not offset the 100 plants that China and India build at the rate of one a week each.

As usual, a lib asking a totally irrelevant question.  That has nothing to do with anything except attempt to muddy waters, and that is an Alinsky/Devious, thing to do and say.

A lib thinks, exactly like a Muslim, buy a degree and you Earn respect.
