
Members of Hays American Legion Riders wave at eastbound Run for the Wall riders Sunday as they pass through Hays.

It was a sunny, windy Sunday afternoon  as local supporters gathered on the Commerce Parkway overpass east of Hays to wave at motorcyclists headed east on Interstate 70.

There are three separate runs, each starting in California, with riders joining along the way.

Hays American Legion Post 173 Riders Lambert Staab and his son, Larry Staab, joined the group in Goodland, according to Post 173 historian Kelly Smith. It’s the northernmost route. They are scheduled to arrive at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial this weekend to participate in Memorial Day ceremonies Monday honoring all veterans.

The crowd of greeters in Hays was smaller than in the past eight years after a last-minute conference with the Kansas Department of Transportation, which was concerned about safety and limited the number of people and motorcycles atop the overpass.

Comments considered to be 'trolling' or for the sole purpose of angering others will be removed.

Poor article…these men did so much more than just be “part of the run for the wall.” maybe interview OTHER people like the two riders??? awful representation here. Yes there was a mix-up because of horrible management. worst attendance of flag-holders in years..it’s a shame.

Welcome to America! Where fear of a lawsuit will ALWAYS win over Patriotism!

Maybe you should know the facts before posting. I was part of the riders that were to stand on the bridge just like we have many many years prior. This has never been an issue. And all of a sudden KHP said we can’t do it. If you travel across the Nation during this run people are on the overpasses all across the Nation but yet KHP in Hays America says no. As far as talking to the individuals on the actual run. They are on a very tight schedule and generally don’t have time to do interviews with the media.

They are not mentioned in the article, but it was KHP that said no to us on the bridge, KDOT was never present on Sunday.

I have seen some poor articles on here before but this one by far takes the prize. You mention the two gentlemen’s names and that is it. How about you interview them either before or after they return and you would find out there is SO much more to this story.

Who cares if the Legion Riders and the American Legion have poor management and screwed up … The two subjects have nothing to do with each other.

JMO.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
