
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to tucson.com. You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

The Jones for Governor campaign, however, did not submit a formal complaint to state agencies with the power to take down the ad, broadcast statewide on the Fox News cable channel. The Jones campaign alleges an outside group colluded with the Ducey campaign to make the 30-second ad, a violation of election laws.

Both the Ducey campaign and the group behind the ad, independent expenditure group Conservative Leadership for Arizona, say the allegations have no merit.

The demand from the Jones campaign, sent last week, might be a moot point now as the head of Conservative Leadership for Arizona says the ad stopped airing Sunday.

Specifically, the Jones campaign argues that the Ducey camp gave the outside group unreleased footage from a campaign kickoff event held in February.

“It appears that footage used in both ads was filmed at the same angle, using the same focal length, and from the same camera platform,” wrote an attorney with the Washington, D.C.-based Clark Hill law firm.

“The use of such similar, nonpublic footage by the Ducey Campaign and the Conservative Leadership for Arizona, a supposed independent group, coupled with the circumstances under which the footage was filmed, raises questions. ...” Haberlein said.

A side-by-side comparison of the two ads shows the cameras were likely placed close together, but not in the same exact location.

Melissa DeLaney, the communications director with the Ducey campaign, rejects the allegations made by the Jones camp.

﻿“Doug’s campaign kickoff was open to media and the general public and many people in attendance filmed the event and took pictures. This is in no way ‘coordination,’ as defined in law,” DeLaney said.

The Ducey campaign did ask members of the Jones campaign to leave the event, Delaney acknowledged.

Amanda Reeve, the head of the group behind the pro-Ducey ad, also rejects claims made by the Jones group of coordination. ﻿She said the letter is an attempt to distract voters.

The Ducey campaign is expected to file the same paperwork with the state before the May 28 deadline.

Copyright 2014 Arizona Daily Star. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Reporters Becky Pallack and Joe Ferguson​ discuss their plans for election night next week.

Username & Password Required!
