
The Primary for the four Democratic Candidates for Governor (Katie McGinty, Tom Wolf, Rob McCord and Allyson Schwartz) is Tuesday.

On Tuesday polls open for the Democratic primary election, so we've rebroadcast portions of those candidate conversations.

Tom Wolf  has been the leading candidate going into the this Tuesday's Democratic Primary. He talked with Essential Pittsburgh about some of the characteristics that make him more favorable than his competition.

In 2008, Wolf began a run for governor, and dropped out to step in and rescue a business he had started and sold previously. He said he plans to bring that experience to the Governor’s office. He also says he’s interested in using state revenue from natural gas to develop more renewable energy plans.

"I agree with the critics that there’s no perfect approach to fracking," he said "But we could do it better."

The full interview with Tom Wolf can be heard here .

Katie McGinty was the first of the Democratic gubernatorial candidates to go on air with a statewide advertisement this year, and hopes to be the first female Governor of the Keystone State.

As a former State Secretary of the Department of Environmental Protection, she has a unique perspective of the environmental issues facing Pennsylvania, as well as a plan for addressing education, tax credits and manufacturing in the commonwealth.

McGinty says she has a vision for a more economically competitive Commonwealth, where incentives would be used to bring more large corporations, while still keeping them accountable to those living and working in the state.

The full interview with Katie McGinty can be heard here .

Rob McCord , an Ardmore, PA native, said he is fortunate to have a useful blend of knowledge when it comes to running the Commonwealth.

His financial cognizance along with his desire and ability to communicate with constituents statewide will set him apart from the other candidates according to McCord.

During his time as State Treasurer, McCord said he's been able to create programs and incentives for families and businesses that reduce the carbon footprint and ultimately save Pennsylvanians money. These innovations pay for themselves rapidly and ensure a very low default rate.

“I intend to be the governor that loves Pittsburgh back,” said McCord, who enjoys working with Pittsburgh's politicians including Mayor Bill Peduto.

The full interview with Rob McCord can be heard  here .

Allyson Schwartz: Looking to replace "Failed Leadership"

According to Schwartz, the private sector creates jobs, but the government can help, too.

She proposed building on apprentice programs and providing incentives to private companies to bring on apprentices.

Schwartz said she also believes the commonwealth’s workforce could benefit from Marcellus Shale, but only if it is used safely.

The full interview with Allyson Schwartz can be heard here .
