
Published: May 18, 2014 Updated: May 19, 2014  10:30 a.m.

West Coast Thunder Color Guard member John Boyce, 53, salutes a simulated battlefield grave marker during a parade rehearsal in Riverside.

Details: The parade begins staging at 6 a.m. Speakers start at 8:05 a.m. The flag-folding and ultimate-sacrifice ceremony is at 8:25 a.m. The ride departs at 9:11 a.m. and arrives about 10 a.m. at Soboba Casino near San Jacinto.

They practice for weeks to ensure flawless execution.

Folding the flag 13 times. Marching in unison to the two motorcycles. Spinning, tossing and catching the rifle. Placing the gun muzzle down in the boot rack. Putting the helmet on top of the rifle. Hanging the dog tags through the trigger guard. Bowing their heads, saluting and reciting the Lord’s Prayer.

It’s crisp, precise and done with the utmost respect.

Members of the West Coast Thunder Color Guard are preparing to pay tribute to their fallen comrades on Memorial Day.

They are set to perform a 20-minute flag-folding and ultimate-sacrifice ceremony before leading a parade of up to 7,000 motorcycles through the streets of Riverside and Moreno Valley.

The procession is set to depart at 9:11 a.m. from Riverside Harley-Davidson, 7688 Indiana Ave., and is due to arrive an hour later for a concert at Soboba Casino’s outdoor arena near San Jacinto. Between acts, the color guard plans to perform the ceremony a second time.

This year is the 15th anniversary of the West Coast Thunder Memorial Day Bike Run, billed as the largest single-day motorcycle event west of the Mississippi.

The eight-man color guard, which consists of Army and Navy veterans, rehearsed Saturday mornings starting in late February to get ready for the holiday performance.

“By the time the day comes, it’s like clockwork because we do it so much,” said Chadd, a 64-year-old Vietnam-era veteran who lives in Moreno Valley.

The ultimate-sacrifice ceremony, performed to “Taps” and “Amazing Grace,” features a 21-gun salute by Veterans of Foreign Wars Memorial Honor Detail Team 52 from Riverside National Cemetery.

Jim Bridges, a retired senior Navy chief, said he jumped at the chance to be part of the color guard eight years ago. He said the march from the front doors of the dealership to the pads where the motorcycles are parked is the hardest part of the ceremony because of the crossover and turn in the middle of the walk.

Anything short of perfection constitutes failure, he said.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Freedom Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Freedom publications without any notification or payment.
