
People in Rome, N.Y., are sometimes incredulous when they find out Debbie Conway works at Fort Stanwix National Monument, a 16-acre National Park Service outpost in the heart of the upstate New York town.

As superintendent of Fort Stanwix, Ms. Conway has spent much of the last seven years trying to educate the public about the national monument and make it a more integral part of the community. It is an experience she thinks will serve her well in her next assignment as superintendent of Steamtown National Historic Site.

The park service selected Ms. Conway late last month to lead Steamtown, succeeding late Superintendent Harold H. “Kip” Hagen, who died in December.

When the 47-year-old Ohio native arrives in mid-June, she will be trading one urban park for another — and dealing with the advantages and challenges that come with that.

“You are right in the heart of a city, so you have a lot of resources right at your fingertips, where some of the more remote locations may not have certain resources available,” said Ms. Conway, a 28-year park service veteran.

The park service credits Ms. Conway with increasing visitation at Fort Stanwix by 47 percent during her tenure. The fort, which played a pivotal role during the American Revolution, attracted 195,057 visitors in 2012 before visitation slipped to 129,089 in 2013 as a result of the government shutdown. Steamtown had 106,309 visitors in 2012 and 81,174 in 2013.

Ms. Conway said when she got to Fort Stanwix, the site’s programming was aimed largely at people from outside the area, even though they represented only a fraction of the park’s visitors.

“We really needed to mix up our programming a little to get folks in the local community to keep coming back. We didn’t want to be a one-and-done thing — you know, come once and been there, done that. So you have to offer up some diversity of opportunities for people to have a reason to come back and see something different,” she said.

Fort Stanwix accomplished that with everything from rotating temporary exhibits to community-oriented programs, including a Backyard Ranger Club for children, she said. The club, which started out with about a half-dozen participants, now brings 30 or 40 children to the fort one Saturday a month.

Ms. Conway has visited Steamtown a few times, mostly on park service business, which has given her a chance to tour the facility and see the exhibits. But she said it too early to talk about specific plans for the site.

“I haven’t got my boots on the ground enough yet to get a good handle on what all the challenges might be,” she said.

Ms. Conway said she does have familiarity with the complexity and expense associated with parks like Steamtown.

She previously worked as operations manager at Cuyahoga Valley National Park in northeast Ohio, one of the few other park service sites to offer train excursions, and at Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park in Maryland, where visitors can ride mule-drawn canal boats.

Anytime an operation involves running large-scale equipment, it is going to be costly, and fees offset only a portion of the expense, she said. That means other ways have to be found to balance the budget.

“But it’s part of the education. It’s part of the opportunity you provide folks and make sure they don’t lose the chances to experience those types of difference pieces of our history,” Ms. Conway said.

To comment you must first create a profile and sign-in with a verified DISQUS account or social network ID. Sign up here.
