
Sen. Andrew Maynard, D-Stonington, will face Republican Kevin Trejo, of Groton. The 18th District covers Griswold, Groton, N. Stonington, Plainfield, Preston, Sterling, Stonington and Voluntown.

Sen. Cathy Osten, D-Sprague, will face Republican Steve Everett, of Columbia. The district covers Columbia, Franklin, Hebron, Lebanon, Ledyard, Lisbon, Marlborough, Montville, Norwich and Sprague.

State Rep. Betsy Ritter, D-Waterford, was endorsed to challenge East Lyme Republican First Selectman Paul Formica in November for Andrea Stillman’s open seat. The district covers Bozrah, East Lyme, Montville, New London, Old Lyme, Old Saybrook, Salem and Waterford.

State Rep. Mae Flexer, D-Killingly, will face John French, of Willimantic, in November. The district includes Brooklyn, Canterbury, Killingly, Mansfield, Putnam, Scotland, Thompson and Windham.

Democrat Emily Bjornberg is challenging freshman Sen. Art Linares, R-Westbrook. The district covers Chester, Clinton, Colchester, Deep River, East Haddam, East Hampton, Essex, Haddam, Lyme, Old Saybrook, Portland and Westbrook.

Eastern Connecticut Democrats on Monday night endorsed candidates to run for state Senate in November.

The night's only contested race was in the 20th District, where candidates are vying for the open seat being vacated by Andrea Stillman. Stillman announced in March that she would not seek re-election.

State Rep. Betsy Ritter, D-Waterford, won the nomination over former New London City Councilor and Mayor William Satti, 28-22.

But Satti didn't rule out the possibility of mounting a primary challenge.

Ritter said she hadn't spoken to Satti late Monday.

Also Monday, Democrats endorsed State Rep. Mae Flexer, D-Killingly, to succeed retiring Senate President Pro Tempore Donald Williams, D-Brooklyn, in the 29th Senate District.

Flexer, who got a unanimous endorsement at Monday's convention, will square off against GOP challenger John French, of Willimantic, in November.

Flexer was one of several Democrats picking up the party's endorsement Monday at conventions throughout Eastern Connecticut. French was nominated by Republicans last week.

East Lyme First Selectman Paul Formica is the Republican candidate for the 20th District.

In other races, two Democrats are going up against two Republican incumbents.

In the 33rd District, Democrat Emily Bjornberg is challenging freshman Sen. Art Linares, R-Westbrook. And in the 35th District, Democrat Bill Loftus, of Woodstock, is facing off against Republican Sen. Tony Guglielmo, R-Stafford Springs.

Also Monday, two incumbent Democrats easily won support for their re-election bids: freshman Sen. Cathy Osten, D-Sprague, in the 19th District, and Sen. Andrew Maynard, D-Stonington, in the 18th District.

Osten cited achievements in helping to secure funding for various infrastructure projects in the district, and for “critical” protection of open space.

Osten's Republican opponent is Steve Everett, of Columbia, and Maynard is being challenged by Republican Kevin Trejo, of Groton. Both were endorsed by the GOP last week.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
