
Dr. George Wood (left), a native of High Point, receives the prestigious Legion of Merit for his service with the 38th Evacuation Army Hospital.

The history of the 38th Evacuation Army Hospital — and a High Point native’s instrumental role in the World War II-era hospital — will be the focus of a presentation this week at the High Point Museum.

Penn Wood, of High Point, will give the presentation at the monthly meeting of the High Point Museum Guild, which will be held at 10 a.m. Wednesday at the High Point Museum.

Wood’s interest in the 38th stems from his uncle, the late Dr. George Wood, who served as the hospital’s first executive officer for two years and then as commanding officer for a year.

His uncle was born in High Point in 1902. He attended Trinity College — before it became Duke University — and got his medical degree from the University of North Carolina in 1926. From there he went to Jefferson Medical School in Philadelphia, graduating in 1928, and then served an internship in surgical residency at Germantown Hospital between 1928 and 1931.

He then spent three years at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, as a member of the surgical fellowship program. While there, he met and married Harriet Quale, and in 1934 they returned to High Point, where he began his practice of surgery.

In 1942, he volunteered to serve with the 38th Evacuation Hospital, which was involved in the invasions of Oran, Algeria in North Africa and Salerno, Italy.

In addition to serving as the hospital’s executive officer, George Wood also headed one of its surgical units. Following the war, he was assigned to Woodrow Wilson General Hospital in Stanton, Virginia, where he served as chief of surgery until his discharge from the Army in late 1945. He was awarded the Legion of Merit by the United States, the Cross of Military Valor by Italy, and the Medal of War by Brazil.

Following the war, he returned to High Point and resumed his practice.

According to Penn Wood, his uncle was one of three High Point doctors associated with the 38th Evac.

The 38th was formed in Charlotte by Dr. Paul Sanger and was called into service in March 1942.

Penn Wood will discuss the history of the 38th Evacuation Army Hospital during the annual monthly meeting of the High Point Museum Guild, which will be held at 10 a.m. Wednesday at the High Point Museum, 1859 E. Lexington Ave.

Admission is free.

For more information, call the museum at 885-1859 or visit www.highpointmuseum.org.
