
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:18 p.m.

BALTIMORE | Would the owners of California Chrome scrap a historic Triple Crown bid over an equipment issue? The trainer Art Sherman raised that possibility Sunday morning, saying the co-owner Perry Martin might decide to hold California Chrome out of the Belmont Stakes if the colt were not allowed to wear a nasal strip for the third leg of the Triple Crown.

California Chrome has won six straight since Martin suggested to Sherman he try the strip on the colt. It looks like a giant band aid and is intended to enhance breathing.

In 2012, I'll Have Another sported the strip in the Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, but his connections were told by New York stewards that the breathing aid would be prohibited for the third leg of the Triple Crown. The connections agreed, but it did not matter after I'll Have Another came up with a leg injury on the day before the race and was scratched from the Belmont.

"I don't know why they would ban you from wearing one," said Sherman. "But we'll have to cross that bridge when we get there, I guess."

Lee Park, a spokesman for the New York State Gaming Commission, said neither his agency nor the stewards at the New York Racing Association have received a request to use nasal strips in the Belmont Stakes.

"If a request to use nasal strips is made, the decision on whether to permit them or not will be fully evaluated and determined by the Stewards," Park said in a statement. "This is in accordance with the Commission's Thoroughbred Rule 4033.8, which states: 'Only equipment specifically approved by the stewards shall be worn or carried by a jockey or a horse in a race.'"

California Chrome is trying to become the 12th Triple Crown champion and the first since Affirmed swept the series in 1978. He is likely to face a stout field of 10 challengers in the mile-and-a-half Belmont Stakes, known as the Test of the Champion.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
