
INDIANAPOLIS – Democratic Rep. Kreg Battles of Vincennes announced last week that he won’t be seeking reelection and is actually resigning his seat now.

The decision means the House minority caucus is losing one of its best and most accessible spokesmen. But it’s also a sign of what’s to come if Democrats can’t win back more seats – and soon.

Battles, a teacher, came to the General Assembly eight years ago. I should acknowledge that he was one of my teachers. I was in his chemistry class at Lincoln High School and he also served as the advisor to the student council when I was a member. So I’ve known Battles for years.

The problem for Democrats is that Battles is an outstanding spokesman for the party’s causes – a guy who can be persuasive at the microphone or in a committee meeting.

He’s also a lawmaker who can talk to the media intelligently and directly about almost any issue. He knows how to produce a sound bite while still offering context and depth.

I have gone to Battles countless times seeking a comment on stories, whether they be about politics or public policy. And I’ve sent the reporters who work for me to him time and again because he’s so good at explaining complex issues in ways that folks new to an issue can understand.

And I’m not alone. My colleagues in the Statehouse press corps also quote Battles regularly on education, utilities and other key issues.

Of course, Battles isn’t the Democratic caucus’ only good spokesman. House Minority Leader Scott Pelath of Michigan City, Rep. Linda Lawson of Hammond, Rep. Charlie Brown of Gary and Rep. Steve Stemler of Jeffersonville are among the Democrats whom I go to regularly for comments.

But Battles’ decision to leave might be the harbinger of things to come for Democrats.

Although he stressed family issues in his explanation for leaving the legislature, Battles has also been frustrated serving in what’s called a “super minority,” which occurred after the last election. It means Democrats have so few members that they can’t even deny the Republicans a quorum. GOP members could hold a session without them present and never break a single rule doing it.

For Battles, that’s been demoralizing and drained some of the enthusiasm that’s needed to be an effective legislator. And I’d guess that lack of power makes it a whole lot tougher to leave your family behind for months to be in Indianapolis during the session.

So Battles probably isn’t alone in his frustration.

To keep other members from following his lead, Democratic leaders need to figure out how to pick more seats in November so they can at least regain some of the power they’ve lost in recent years.

Battles did do his Democratic colleagues a favor. By resigning after the primary, he gives local Democrats the opportunity to pick the new legislator for District 45, a process that involves a vote by the precinct committeemen in the district.

Then Democrats – if they choose – can put that same candidate on the ballot for November, replacing Battles. That gives his successor time to serve on summer study committees and build up some record he or she can use to run as an incumbent.

But there’s no guarantee a Democrat will win the seat again. And unless Democrats can pick up other seats too, more of their members might find that it’s just easier to go back home and try to make a difference locally.

Lesley Weidenbener is the executive editor of TheStatehouseFile.com , a news website powered by Franklin College journalism students.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Choose an online service.

Posted in State on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:30 am.

jstarcs posted at 11:57 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

A good friend in Vincennes also spoke very highly of Battles, who sounds to me like the kind of thoughtful legislator this state needs. It is not good for any party to have such a supermajority in both houses that they no longer need to consult the opposition. I was afraid that the GOP would run roughshod over the Democrats after the last election returns, and though the worst has not happened, to the consternation of our more zealous social conservatives, it was bad enough. I would welcome a few more Democrats in the legislature in case Eric Turner and the preachers start getting delusions of grandeur.

Hometownfan posted at 6:00 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Interesting, Republicans face all these same walls and ceilings in Bloomington and Monroe county elections.

jstarcs posted at 8:14 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I most certainly do not exempt Bloomington and Monroe County from my animadversions.  We have a chance to do something about the county in November. I am less sanguine about Bloomington next year, given the demographics.

Mike B posted at 7:30 pm on Wed, May 21, 2014.

Dems won't come close to a majority as long as they let private companies run electronic voting machines instead of having paper ballots and exit polling. It's like dems want to lose.

1 The comments are intended to provide insight, community conversation and civil debate.

2 You are solely responsible for the comments you make on this site. And while we do not edit or alter any comments, we reserve the right to remove comments that do not comply with our policy. The option to make comments is a privilege and we reserve the right to revoke that privilege at anytime.

3 We do not permit obscene, libelous, harassing, racist, hateful, offensive or violent language or images. Further, we will not allow personal attacks on news sources, other commenters or our staff. Our moderators will determine what constitutes civil criticism and what is a personal attack.

4 We welcome and encourage feedback of our work, but any criticism or comments should relate to the article in question.

5 Our system accepts abuse reports from users that could trigger removal of comments and loss of commenting privileges of those whose comments are reported most frequently. We also reserve the right to revoke the privilege to comment from any account that requires frequent moderation and does not comply with the spirit of civility.
