
Kentrell Martin and his book, "Shelly Goes to the Zoo," featuring American Sign Language (photo by Kelly Petty).

The literary world found a home in Columbia this weekend at the 18th annual South Carolina Book Festival. Book lovers, authors and aspiring writers gathered at the Columbia Metropolitan Convention to celebrate all things literary.

Two days of panels featured top writers in literary fiction, memoir, nonfiction and young adult genres that examined all facets of the writing and publishing industry, as well as offered up-and-coming writers the chance to hobnob with their favorite authors and gain advice.

Poet Nikki Giovanni spoke of how she crafted her latest book “Chasing Utopia,” which details her journey to find the world’s greatest beer and deal with the deaths of her mother, aunt and sister in a five-month time frame in 2004.

Lawanda Armstrong-Jackson, a spoken word poet and book writer, traveled from Florida with a group of friends just to network with other writers and see Giovanni. She said Giovanni’s words spoke to her and inspired her to continuing touching lives regardless of accolades.

Other panels included U.S. Rep. Jim Clyburn who talked about his autobiography “Blessed Experiences: Genuinely Southern, Proudly Black,” which details his rise from humble beginnings in South Carolina to travailing the halls of Capitol Hill as a political leader in Washington, D.C.

The children’s pavilion included storytelling with local playwright and actor Darion McCloud, founder and creative director of NiA Co., as well as actors from the Columbia Children’s Theatre performing “The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fair(l)y (Stoopid) Tales.” Kids also had a chance to learn about service dogs and read books with the furry friends.

The festival’s main exhibit room featured hundreds of book sellers from the big guys — Barnes and Noble and Books-A-Million — to antiquarian book dealers, independent publishing companies and authors selling their books directly to customers.

Self-made authors found the book festival could provide an opportunity to get their books in front of new readers and build momentum for the sale of their books.

Kentrell Martin is an up-and-coming children’s book author who penned two books bringing the world of American Sign Language to kids based on his experience of growing up with an older brother who is deaf. His books, “Shelly Goes to the Zoo” and “Shelly’s Outdoor Adventure,” are part of his Shelly’s Adventures series, which he says will include more than 20 books in the future.

He said visiting various book festivals and speaking to librarians and educators has been key to getting his book out to the masses. His first two books have been nominated for won awards including the Indie Excellence Book Awards Finalist and the Five Star Award from the website Reader’s Favorite. People’s Favorite Finalists of the year.

For small book publishing companies, the festival offered readers an opportunity to find books from a wide range of authors who are just launching their careers or who have come from different backgrounds and discovered their knack for writing.

Terri Leidich of Boutique of Quality Books says her publishing company offers writers a hybrid of traditional publishing with the author involvement of self-publishing. Leidich said she looks for books that have something unique like a great characters or an interesting storyline.

Two of her writers featured at the festival come from unique backgrounds and fell into writing for different reasons. Robert Fiacco, a Greenville-based insurance broker, said he wrote his book “Showing Up to Play” to inspire others to overcome their own challenges to become successful in life. He was guided by his own life story and said he thought he could share his personal trials and triumphs in a book.

Millie West is a real estate agent turned author who always had ideas for stories budding inside her. Meeting Leidich gave her the space to tell those stories and start a writing career when the economy experienced a downtown a few years ago.

Leidich calls West’s novels “cozy mysteries.” West described her first book, “The Cast Net,” and it’s sequel,“Catherine’s Cross,” as mystery-suspense mixed with a love story that moves between Edisto and Charleston in the 1980s and Beaufort County in the present day.

West said the South Carolina Book Festival has given her the opportunity to network with other writers and gain new readers for her books.

“It’s a great forum for book authors and for those who like to read and could hope to become fans,” West said.
