
Patterson needed to raise $1.4 million in 16 days or, as president and CEO of the California Women’s Conference, she would be forced to announce its demise.

Published: May 18, 2014 Updated: May 19, 2014  9:37 a.m.

Michelle Patterson, president of the California Women's Conference, stands in the Long Beach Arena. She's the president and CEO of the conference, which takes place May 19-20 with speakers including Jane Pauley, Arianna Huffington, and Rosie Perez.

When, where: 8 a.m. Monday to 5 p.m. Tuesday, Long Beach Convention Center, 300 E. Ocean Blvd.

3:45 p.m. Aaron Kushner, publisher/CEO, Los Angeles Register, Orange County Register and The Riverside Press-Enterprise will speak on the power of building, connecting and uniting local communities through media.

1:30 p.m. Better Together: Influential Women Reaching Over 150 Million. Jane Pauley moderates a panel that includes Arianna Huffington, Amanda Steinberg, founder of DailyWorth, Michelle King Robson, founder of EmpowHer, and Elisa Page, COO of BlogHer.

Michelle Patterson faced the greatest financial crisis of her life. But she was determined not to cause her husband, Eric, any worry, so she quietly went to bed.

Earlier that day, she had met with Steve Goodling, president and CEO at the Long Beach Area Convention & Visitors Bureau, and gotten what she considered an even wilder reaction.

She told Goodling she needed to raise $1.8 million to put on the annual event, which brings to Long Beach thousands of attendees, hundreds of exhibit booths and guest speakers, a wealth of resources and information for women.

“Michelle, what’s your favorite ice cream?” Goodling asked.

By the end of the meeting, they’d figure out to reduce the total by $400,000.

But Patterson, who lives in Ladera Ranch, learned a valuable lesson. To be strong, a woman needs to surround herself with supportive family and friends. The 44-year-old mother of two teens knew that these men believed in her and though she faced an impossible task, each believed she could do it.

But Patterson wasn’t sure.

Paterson had already revived the conference once, and now the pressure was really on. She had to come up with the cash because she didn’t want to be the person who ended its nearly three-decade legacy.

In 1985, then-Gov. George Deukmejian started the conference after becoming alarmed at the high failure rate of female-owned businesses in California.

Deukmejian was one of Patterson’s idols. She had met him in Northern California when she was 12 and he granted her an interview for Farm Elementary’s school paper in San Diego.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Register publications without any notification or payment.
