
AUSTIN – Lt. Gov David Dewhurst spoke with Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson two weeks ago about previously unearthed court documents involving state Sen. Dan Patrick – but said he advised against their dissemination back then for fear the move could backfire and damage his chances of winning reelection.

Dewhurst, in an interview at his Austin campaign headquarters on the first day of early voting ahead of the May 27 runoff, disclosed that Patterson originally reached out weeks ago to discuss access to court filings that could damage Patrick's run for lieutenant governor.

Those court documents were released to state media by Patterson on Thursday and Friday and show that Patrick, R-Houston, in the 1980s was treated for severe depression and had attempted suicide.

Since then, Dewhurst's camp has come under heavy fire, with Patrick's camp laying blame squarely on the incumbent lieutenant governor for the attack. Dewhurst's campaign has denied any involvement and sought to distance itself from the document release.

Dewhurst, who said he had no idea what was in the documents when contacted two weeks ago, said he advised strongly that a document dump could be pointed back at his campaign and "I don't want anything to do with it."

"Whatever you do could have some reflection on me," Dewhurst said he told Patterson at the time.

After Patterson bucked Dewhurst and released an initial batch of documents on Thursday, prompting three senators to repudiate the action, Dewhurst said he again reached out to Patterson late last week to ask him to stop. That effort also failed.

"I can't control what other people are doing," Dewhurst said. "Nor have I tried, other than telling Jerry Patterson on two occasions that I had a bad feeling about releasing documents and wouldn't recommend he do that without carefully analyzing whatever he might find to see if its relevant today and don't do anything that would confuse voters or turn off anyone on my candidacy."

Dewhurst said he was "appalled" that Patterson released the records without finding out if any of the documents "were relevant to today."

"The only relevance of documents whether they're business or medical records, today is if they have a bearing on judgment and capacity to govern," he said. "That's the only relevance."

Asked if the documents show that Patrick is mentally unfit to serve as the state's No. 2 elected official, Dewhurst balked.

"I don't know enough to opine on that," he said, "and I'm staying a country mile away from there."
