
The state has not spent federal money that was handed out to help rebuild after Superstorm Sandy, an I-Team investigation found.

More than 18 months after the storm battered the coast, the state's program was still a month away from rebuilding its first damaged home.

Officials said there were some battles in Congress over the money, so it was not available to states right away. Connecticut received much less than New York and New Jersey.

However, no matter how it was looked at, people were still out of their homes and waiting for help.

Those living along the shoreline in Milford knew the order. First there's the wind. Then the rain. Next, it's the pounding surf.

They said they're helpless as eventually, the water rises up and floods their streets and homes.

Eventually, the water recedes and then one last phenomenon occurs each and every time. The politicians arrive, promising help.

"Certainly when they said, ‘We're going to help you,'" said Laurie Robinson of Milford. "We're grateful for that, but in what century?"

Like so many of her neighbors, Robinson was hit twice. Hurricane Irene wiped out her first floor in August of 2011. Her brand new kitchen was completed just days before Sandy slammed ashore in October of 2012. That time, it wasn't just water damage.

Her home was declared uninhabitable. She had to move into a camper in her driveway. She was still there more than 18 months later.

"I'm laughing," Robinson said. "But it's because I have no other choice. I refuse to be that person who's taken down by this."

She said insurance would cover the repairs, but since her house was deemed a total loss, federal rules required her to raise it at least 13 1/2 feet before she can rebuild. To pay that additional cost, she was waiting on the state help promised shortly after the storm.

Robinson said she filled out the lengthy application, got into the pipeline and had been waiting.

"I've answered 50 million questions, 50 million times to 50 million different people," she said.

Evonne Klein, commissioner of the state's newly created Department of Housing, said she knew of the frustration.

"We have made people who are out of their homes a priority," she said.

Klein said the progress of the program was actually on schedule.

"We have 250 homeowners who are working with architects and engineers right now," Klein said.

However, not one single home was repaired to date using the $72 million in additional federal disaster aid money that the state was charged with handing out.

Klein said to assume that was too slow would be a mistake.

"I know folks look at the date of the storm, but the next day no municipality had funding available from HUD," Klein said. "The funding became available in the summer of 2013."

Klein and the Department of Housing said they made compliance with federal rules a priority. They also said it was working.

The I-Team found that more than 25 people who applied for the program had been turned away because an on-site review of their home found they either had too little damage or that their damage was not caused by Sandy as they claimed.

However, other states were doing things differently and had already fixed hundreds of homes.

Copyright 2014 WFSB (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.

An 88-year-old woman from Hamden was seriously injured after she let in an uninvited visitor Sunday night.

The Connecticut Lottery said someone won the second prize in its "Lucky for Life" drawing back on Feb. 27, but did not come forward until last week.

Fort Lee officials say a soldier has died after she likely shot herself at the post Monday morning.

A crash briefly shut down the southbound side of the Merritt Parkway near Exit 51 in Trumbull on Monday afternoon, police said.

In less than a minute the officers knew they had the wrong car.

The lead up to this year's VMAs has proven particularly dangerous. Suge Knight was shot, Iggy Azalea fell off stage and a snake bit a Nicki Minaj back-up dancer.

All content © 2014, WFSB; Hartford, CT. (A Meredith Corporation Station) and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.
