
Jim Webb, pictured addressing a group of VCU students, said in a Washington radio interview Monday that he’s thinking of running for president.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 8:00 pm | Updated: 6:53 pm, Sat May 24, 2014.

Jim Webb, who left the U.S. Senate after representing Virginia for one term, said in a Washington radio interview Monday that he’s thinking of running for president.

Guest host Susan Page noted that two callers had said they hope Webb will run for president. Page asked the Democrat whether he would consider doing so.

The host told Webb that his nondenial would be seen as an expression of interest.

“Well, if you look at how I ran for the Senate, you know I announced nine months to the day before the (2006) election with no money and no campaign staff,” Webb said.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is widely viewed as a strong favorite for the Democratic presidential nomination should she decide to run.

Webb served as a Marine infantry officer in Vietnam and was awarded the Navy Cross, the Silver Star, two Bronze Stars and two Purple Hearts.

He moved to Washington as a lawyer for the House Committee on Veterans Affairs and later served under President Ronald Reagan as an undersecretary of defense and secretary of the Navy.

Webb’s signature achievement in the Senate was a new GI Bill of Rights. He also took the lead in foreign policy outreach to Southeast Asia. Webb bowed out after one term and was succeeded by Sen. Timothy M. Kaine, D-Va.

During the interview Monday, Webb offered a critique of the Obama administration’s foreign policy.

“I think we have become frustrated because people can’t see a clear expression of what our national security interests are, which would calm a lot of people down in terms of what we’re doing around the world,” he said. “And I think that same principle applies here at home.

Webb would not say whether Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, secretary of veterans affairs, should be replaced following reports that veterans had died while waiting for care in Phoenix.

“I’m not going to make a comment on that, but I think we definitely need more aggressive leadership to solve these problems,” he said.

Posted in State-regional , Government-politics , Latest-news on Monday, May 19, 2014 8:00 pm. Updated: 6:53 pm.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Metro columnist and reporter for The Times-Dispatch who's never afraid to take sides on hot-button issues in Central Virginia.

RTD political reporter and columnist, Schapiro has covered Virginia elections and the state Capitol for 30 years. He warns, however, not to read or watch his commentary on a full stomach!

To log in, enter the email and password for your Times-Dispatch All Access account.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
