
Correction Officer Raymond Castro and Capt. Terrence Pendergrass ignored Jason Echevarria's plea for medical attention after he ate a 'soap ball' of cleaning powder, according to prisoner Allen Turner.

Howard Simmons/New York Daily News Jason Echevarria, 25, died after swallowing a 'soap ball' detergent in August 2012.

An inmate who died at Rikers Island after swallowing a “soap ball” of detergent spit blood on his jail cell window in a desperate plea for help, claims a man who says he was in the next cell.

But correction officers ignored Jason Echevarria, 25, Allen Turner says in a written account of the incident he shared with the Daily News.

Correction Officer Raymond Castro was fired, while Capt. Terrence Pendergrass was arrested in March. He was charged in Manhattan Federal Court with violating Echevarria's civil rights by denying him medial treatment.

The 2012 death was ruled a homicide.

Echevarria’s family is suing both Castro and Pendergrass.

A lawyer for Pendergrass didn't return a request for comment.

“Rather than relying on the completely unsubstantiated claims made by a convicted felon, we believe the facts of this case will demonstrate Officer Castro’s innocence,” said his lawyer, Liam Castro.

The inmate was on suicide watch, says Turner.

“He started to flood his cell out by placing objects in the toilet and flushing them,” Turner says.

Castro and Pendergrass hauled Echevarria to an isolation cell, according to Turner’s account.

It was around 4:30 p.m. on Aug. 18, 2012, when Echevarria returned.

“Jay was back in his cell and told me that he had ate some of the soap ball in front of Capt. Pendergrass that was left in all the cells that suffered from the flood,” Turner says.

Turner says he changed his mind about the situation after Echevarria became distressed.

Turner and other inmates made noise until Pendergrass showed up at the cell, Turner says.

“He arrived there fast and went to Jay’s cell and looked into it,” says Turner.

Time was running out for Echevarria as the cleaning powder burned his throat and insides.

Andrew Savulich/New York Daily News Capt. Terrence Pendergrass allegedly accused Echevarria of 'faking it' as his condtion deteriorated. He has been charged with violating the 25-year-old's civil rights by denying him medial treatment.

“Jay continued to start banging on the door,” Turner says.

In the end, Echevarria bloodied his cell window, Turner says.

“His responses were faint. His breathing started to get heavy. I did hear him say that he was bleeding so I told him to spit it on the window maybe then that will get someone's attention,” according to Turner.

Turner says he sought help from a pharmacy technician who was making her rounds.

“I see her looked in his cell and tells C.O. Castro that Jay was on the floor and he may need medical attention because there was blood on the window,” he says.

Turner says he asked Castro one more time to help Echevarria.

Turner was having his own medical problems.“I started to get dizzy and (laid) down,” he recalls.

Echevarria was dead.

Turner and other inmates spoke to Bronx prosecutors, who ultimately decided not to pursue criminal charges in the death, according to a source briefed on the investigation.

Castro is suing the city for wrongful termination, claiming Pendergrass kept him from seeking attention for Echevarria.

The former officer is now a lead witness in Pendergrass’s federal case, according to the source.

The source says the Correction Department never warned its employees the soap balls were toxic.

The federal complaint against Pendergrass mostly mirrors Turner’s story but mentions two officers in addition to Pendergrass.

The complaint says Pendergrass later ignored a different officer, who had learned from the pharmacy technician that Echevarria might die without medical help.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
