
Since the founding of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a sacrosanct rule in American politics has been that the IRS would never be used to target political enemies.

However, we now know that this rule was violated by Democrats just a few short months after Barack Obama assumed power.

Last week, the legal advocacy organization, Judicial Watch, released incriminating emails that prove the IRS abused its authority by singling out Tea Party conservatives for punitive actions. The most damaging email was sent by Lois Lerner , the now-disgraced IRS honcho who’s still refusing to testify before Congress, and it revealed that raw political motives were behind the efforts.

Since the emails weren’t covered extensively in the mainstream media, I wanted to emphasize these revelations and the intense IRS corruption that they brought to light.

On March 30, 2012, Democratic Sen. Carl Levin wrote a letter to then-IRS Commissioner, Douglas Shulman, discussing the issue of political activity by nonprofit applicants. Levin asked if the IRS was sending out additional information requests to applicant groups.

This email is the smoking gun that proves there was political pressure behind the IRS moves. Correspondence between Senator Levin and Shulman powerfully implies that Levin wasn’t simply looking for information about the actions of the IRS. Rather, Levin seems to be guiding the IRS and calling for retaliatory processes.

Another email, sent by Lerner in April 2013, includes a description of the criteria for targeting. The list is a “BOLO” (government lingo for “be on the lookout”) directive targeting any nonprofit applicant linked to the Tea Party.

Why anyone would be against an organization wanting to “make America a better place to live,” I’ll never understand. Either way, this is the criteria set by Lerner for IRS targeting.

In addition to the Lerner email, Judicial Watch released two other highly damaging pieces of internal IRS correspondence.

These emails rip to shreds the Obama administration’s oft-repeated lie that the targeting effort was exclusive to the Cincinnati IRS office. It’s now obvious that there was an organized, deliberate campaign to target Tea Party groups.

Your eyes on the Hill,

Not only that, but Nancy Pelosi is set to appoint only Alan Grayson to the committee to investigate Benghazi and  he’s vowed, not to get to the bottom of it, but to be a thorn in the side of Republicans.  I can imagine Senator Levin et al. being the same thing in the Senate.

There will be no truth about these events until we have Republicans everywhere.  THe problem is, if they dig deep enough, they’ll find Republicans there too.

Why bother…the baseball season is in full swing, the fridge is full of beer and there’s ‘tunes and ‘vids on the entertainment center.

In the near future, when America wakes up in an unmitigated, totalitarian police state, and THEIR ox is being gored, they’ll be outraged! Shocked..SHOCKED.

We've assembled a team of unbiased, seasoned investment professionals to pick apart the market's biggest headlines on a daily basis.

Our mission? To challenge Wall Street's most widely accepted wisdom. And uncover the real intentions behind the greatest moneymaking machine of all time. Along the way, we'll also expose the profit trends others simply don't have the experience to detect (or the courage to broadcast).

We challenge you to read our content for 30 days and see for yourself. You can handle the truth! And to get it, all you have to do is click here .
