
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

FLINT, MI -- Police were called today, May 19, to remove city Councilman Eric Mays from a meeting for the second time this month .

With council meeting to discuss a proposal to sell a section of water transmission line to Genesee County for $3.9 million, Mays clashed with council President Scott Kincaid, who called police to remove Mays after ruling him out of order.

Two uniformed officers approached the 1st Ward councilman but pulled back from removing Mays after a 20 minute recess was approved by the council.

Kincaid's call for police came after he and Mays argued over how the meeting was being run, including what order Kincaid was recognizing his colleagues to speak.

"I'm not going to let you lie to these people Scott," Mays said to Kincaid. "You don't rule this council."

"I'm running the meeting, not you," Kincaid told Mays before calling for police.

The clash is the second this month in which officers responded to Kincaid's request to remove Mays from a council meeting.

On May 1, Mays walked away from his seat at the council table in that meeting as police approached.

After a 20-minute recess, Mays said he was "embarrassed by what happened here today."

He criticized Kincaid for allowing emergency manager Darnell Earley to leave the meeting shortly after it started -- even as Mays attempted to question him.

This month doesn't mark the first time police have been called to remove Mays from a council meeting.

Before he was elected, Mays was  escorted by police  out of a 2012 public hearing at City Hall after speaking out against proposed tax abatements for downtown Flint buildings.

In that case, an assistant city attorney asked Mays to take his seat after he continued talking beyond a 3-minute per-person time limit.

Mays refused, and he was convicted of a misdemeanor charge of disrupting a public meeting in 2013 as a result and was sentenced to pay $425 in fines and court costs.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
