
MIAMI, FL--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) - The Miami New Construction Show announced the details of its inaugural show, taking place on August 29, 30, and 31 at the Miami Beach Convention Center. The show is expecting a turnout of more than 100 new developer projects from South Florida from nearly 80 real estate-related professionals, and over 35,000 visitors from the United States, South America, Europe, and Canada.

Developers are making tremendous efforts by traveling to countries such as Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina and Panama to promote their construction projects in exhibitions drawing a lower attendance. Having the opportunity to showcase their construction projects in Miami to more than 35,000 stakeholders in three days is an effective promotional tool that will allow developers to reach their sales objectives while preserving several resources.

"We designed the show to be a one-stop shop for international customers, or any interested buyers, by including real estate related professions as exhibitors such as real estate agents, title insurance companies, insurance agents, property managers, immigration lawyers, accountants and others," said Anita Funtek, CEO of the Miami New Construction Show.

The Miami New Construction Show has resonated with developers of new luxury construction projects in South Florida. Most recently Dezer Development ( www.dezer.com ) President Gil Dezer signed on with a new project, which has yet to be made public. His team plans to announce the details of their latest project at the Miami New Construction Show. In addition David and Pedro Martin's Terra Group ( www.terragroup.com ) has come on-board with Modern Doral ( www.moderndoral.com ), as well as Michael Sadov's Terrazas ( www.terrazasapts.com ) and Costa Hollywood ( www.costahollywood.com ), a project spearheaded by Moses Bensusan, of Liberty Grande, LLC, Developer, Michael Capponi and Director of Sales, Fernando Valdivieso.

"According to many experts, the real estate market in South Florida is slowly but surely recovering," explains Funtek. "This is the result of several factors including urban development, cultural offerings, local economy, and dedication from the Miami Association of Realtors. The Miami New Construction Show comes at the right time to support and further enhance that growth."
