
Here is some news about a bear attacking a person a military base in Alaska, because that is a thing that happened over the weekend.

A woman was attacked by a bear while jogging at a military base outside of Anchorage on Sunday morning, according to officials at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.

The woman, who was not a soldier but is a “soldier dependent,” encountered the female brown bear — and her cubs — while jogging along a road, Maj. Angela Webb, a base spokeswoman, told The Post on Monday afternoon.

At this point, the bear attacked the woman, though the extent of the woman’s injuries are still unclear, Webb said. A driver spotted the unnamed woman after the attack, picked her up and brought her to the base’s medical facility.

She was conscious and in stable condition at that time, Webb said, and she has since been transferred to the Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage.

The injured person has requested that no information be released yet, Webb said. This incident is particularly unusual because the woman is a dependent, rather than an active duty member, Webb said; this means she could be a spouse, child or have some other relationship with a person on the base.

Webb said that the last time anyone on the base had a known bear encounter was when four young children saw a black bear in 2010. Three of the children played dead, while the fourth ran to get an adult, and all of the children were brought to safety.

Mark Berman is a reporter on the National staff. He anchors Post Nation, a destination for breaking news and developing stories from around the country.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
