
ARLINGTON — Nearly 40 years after serving up the first gooey tray of nachos during a Texas Rangers home game, Ricos Products has returned to Arlington to manufacture its international line of tortilla chip and popcorn products.

Ricos Products , which originated concession nachos in 1976 at what was then known as Arlington Stadium, decided to relocate to Arlington last year after outgrowing its Lewisville production facility, President Tony Liberto said. On Monday, city officials joined Liberto and other leaders of the family-owned company in celebrating Ricos’ $8 million investment in the Great Southwest Industrial District .

The Arlington site, which has about 70 full-time employees, currently produces popcorn and restaurant-style tortilla chips in a variety of sizes and flavors under its brand name and other private labels, such as On the Border. Liberto said the company, which now has twice the capacity, is already working to expand its product line with new popcorn and tortilla chip flavors. Ricos Products ships to 57 countries, including Korea, he said.

The Arlington City Council approved some economic incentives in August for Ricos for its investment in the industrial district building, which had been vacant for about three years. Under the deal, the city will abate 60 percent of at least $2.5 million worth of real and business personal property for seven years. The city estimates that would save Ricos about $70,000 in taxes over the abatement period. The company can earn an additional 10 percent abatement if its employee wages exceed Arlington’s median wage.

Economic Development Specialist Andrea Roy said the city is seeking other companies like Ricos Products to bring new life to vacant buildings in the east Arlington industrial park. The park has about a 5 percent vacancy rate, Roy said.

Arlington resident Richard Weber was the only person who publicly opposed the incentives during the council meeting last August.

We welcome your comments on this story, but please be civil. Do not use profanity, hate speech, threats, personal abuse, images, internet links or any device to draw undue attention. Our policy requires those wishing to post here to use their real identity.
