
Daytona Beach Shores detectives R.J. Medders, left, and Sean Rooney remove computerized slot machines, Monday May 19, 2014, from the Surfside Tavern.

Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 4:05 p.m.

DAYTONA BEACH SHORES — A bar owner warned earlier this year about having computerized slot machines is being stripped of his gambling operation as city police, the Volusia County Sheriff’s Office and state investigators seized gambling machines, computers, cash and documents relating to the illegal enterprise, a Daytona Beach Shores sergeant said.

Several law enforcement officers armed with a search warrant descended on the Surfside Tavern on Monday and began confiscating the items stipulated in the warrant, said Sgt. Mike Fowler of Daytona Beach Shores Department of Public Safety.

Fowler said bar owner Robert “Bobby” Honeycutt, 64, had been told in January that “computer-style” slot machines he placed inside the tavern at 3400 S. Atlantic Ave. are illegal. Investigators said management at the business was paying its patrons in cash when the patrons won off the machines and some bar customers reported the activity to police.

Honeycutt was told to remove the machines in January and warned that any further violation would result in felony charges, Fowler said.

Arrests and charges are pending in the case, Fowler said. Honeycutt was not present at the bar while law enforcement officers executed the search warrant.

This past March Honeycutt failed to heed the warning. He brought back four of the machines, Fowler said, and an undercover investigation ensued. Investigators were able to confirm that patrons were getting paid in cash and that the machines raked in a profit of roughly $10,000 a week.

Dembinsky said officers had not yet talked to Honeycutt as of Monday afternoon. A phone message left with Honeycutt was not immediately returned.

The Florida Illegal Gambling Task Force began an aggressive campaign last year that shut down Internet cafes all over the state. The cafes — there were several in Volusia County — featured slot machines similar to the ones taken from Honeycutt.

April Phillips, who owns A-1 Shipping, directly next to the bar in the same building, characterized Honeycutt as stubborn, arrogant and “set in his ways.” She suspected something untoward was going on next door to her business.

“It didn’t seem right, the bar, all the time, but I didn’t know what it was,” she said.

Robert Stolpmann, who manages the property, said he and the owners have been constantly having trouble with Honeycutt since they took over the property and inherited his lease about two years ago.

Daytona Beach Shores detectives R.J. Medders, left, and Sean Rooney remove computerized slot machines, Monday May 19, 2014 from the Surfside Tavern.
