
Michele Roberts’ photo of her son at Oak Point Park and Nature Preserve won the April #loveplano prize of two tickets to Suburbia Music Festival.

Monique Cummings’ photo of a mother duck and ducklings won March’s #loveplano prize.

The city of Plano has jumped on the Instagram bandwagon, launching a yearlong photo contest for residents and visitors to share what they love about Plano.

The contest, which began in February, encourages people to share their favorite photos of Plano using the hashtag #loveplano. While the contest is geared toward Instagram users, Twitter and Facebook posts are eligible as well.

Juan Torres, a Dallas resident who commutes to Plano for work, won February’s contest with a photo of his bike at Plano’s Big Lake.

While a photo of a bike might not be the first thing that comes to mind when given the monthly theme, Torres said that for him, it captured the theme perfectly.

After being selected as the monthly winner, Torres was treated to dinner for two at Urban Rio as his prize.

Mary Vail-Grube, director of marketing and community engagement for the city of Plano, said as of May 2, there have been 374 photos submitted for the contest. In April, @cityofplano gained 48 new followers, bringing the total to 204.

“We as staff try to find as many different ways that we can reach different segments of our population,” she said. “We’re trying to engage not only families and senior citizens, but also young people in the community. We thought that using Instagram would be a great way to not only engage everyone but also reach out to some of the younger people in the community on a medium they’re using all the time, and then also to tie in what you like about Plano and raise awareness about different events and departments.

Each week, Tanner and a coworker pick a winner based on the content, aesthetics, framing and representation of the photo. At the end of the month, the department or company that donates the prize is allowed to choose the winner from the four finalists.

At the end of the year, all 12 winning photos will be judged by users to determine the contest winner, who will receive a grand prize, which is still undetermined.

Tanner said that when the contest is over, his department is going to take all of the photos that have been submitted and turn them into a collage.

While the contest will likely run through January, Tanner said that he plans to keep the Instagram account and #loveplano going even after it wraps up.

For information, visit plano.gov/loveplano .

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 3:22 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
