
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

"It was my job to respond to constituent services," Gannon said.

Prosecutors brought Gannon as a witness in the trial of former Probation Commissioner John O'Brien and his deputies, Elizabeth Tavares and William Burke. The three are on trial in U.S. District Court for mail fraud, conspiracy to commit mail fraud and racketeering. Prosecutors said they hired people based on political connections, not merit, then lied on forms certifying the hiring was done correctly.

Murray's office helped four of the 10 candidates who form the basis for the indictments. Gannon testified Monday about how she helped probation officer candidates Melissa Melia, Patricia Mosca and Anthony Mataragas. She testified Friday about helping Patrick Lawton.

Mosca, Gannon said, was an employee at the Massachusetts Department of Transitional Assistance who wanted to move into another job that would increase her pension. Probation officers are in a different pension category than general state employees, which allows them to retire at a younger age with the same benefits. Gannon wrote a note in a case file she kept that Mosca "wants to move into another group/job to obtain higher pension."

In emails and phone calls, Mosca discussed with Gannon potential salaries for state positions. Mosca said she applied to jobs in six courts but would only be willing to take a job that required commuting to Boston for a salary of $59,000. Gannon advised her that with her experience she would qualify for less than $52,000. Mosca ultimately received a job at Plymouth District Court paying around $52,000, a small pay cut from her previous position.

In a memo, Gannon wrote to Murray, "Her interview was just OK, but (she) knows it was because of your intervention that she was selected."

Gannon testified about multiple phone calls and emails between her and both the job applicants and the Probation Department's legislative liaison. Typically, Gannon would correspond with the job applicant and receive materials, such as a resume. She would call Ed Ryan, the legislative liaison, who would then update her on the candidate's progress. Gannon would correspond with the applicant throughout the interview process.

Melia was a candidate for a probation officer at Plymouth District Court, who was referred to Murray by Cape and Islands District Attorney Michael O'Keefe. O'Keefe had worked with Melia's father, a state police detective. Mataragas was a candidate for probation officer at Peabody District Court, who was referred by then-Senate Majority Leader Fred Berry.

Gannon testified that her only direct contact with O'Brien was in one meeting with Gannon, O'Brien and Ryan, in which they spoke briefly and Gannon gave O'Brien a list of job candidates who had been in touch with her office. "It was really almost a meet and greet. I got to know him. He got to know me," Gannon said.

O'Brien and his deputies are accused of picking candidates in exchange for having lawmakers look favorably on the department's budget and legislative priorities. Gannon said she had nothing to do with the state budget process.

On cross-examination, Gannon said she similarly helped all job candidates.

"Did you do the same thing when people applied to other agencies?" asked Christine DeMaso, who represents O'Brien.

"Yes I did," Gannon said.

DeMaso focused on candidates Gannon helped in the trial court, where she also was in contact with job applicants and the legislative liaison. There has been no accusation of wrongdoing at the trial court. Among those Gannon helped get jobs in the trial court were Patricia Bellotti, the sister of Norfolk County Sheriff Mike Bellotti, and Richard Musiol, the father of Murray's chief of staff Rick Musiol.

Musiol was a former cook and electrician's helper who received a job as an associate court officer in Wareham District Court. Bellotti, who also received a letter of support from state Sen. James Timilty, a Walpole Democrat, was promoted to permanent chief court officer at the Dedham court complex.

Prosecutors had tried to stop O'Brien's attorneys from using the court officer files , but Judge William Young denied their motion.

DeMaso also asked Gannon about her expectations after she recommended a candidate. "You never thought anyone was guaranteed to get a job?" DeMaso asked. Gannon said no.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

You are now signed up for our Breaking News newsletter. You will receive occasional emails from us as stories break.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 MassLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
