
America Ferrera is the latest victim to notorious "prankster" Vitalii Sediuk during the Cannes Film Festival.

America Ferrera attended the Cannes Film Festival on May 16 to promote her movie "How to Train Your Dragon 2." Unfortunately, while on the red carpet posing for photographs with co-stars Cate Blanchet, Kit Harrington, and Djimon Hounsou, a man in suit and tie suddenly invaded her personal space, literally, by attempting to crawl under her gown ( photo ). The "Ugly Betty" actress became another victim to so-called prankster and Ukrainian journalist Vitalii Sediuk.

Huffington Post  reported that Sediuk was quickly apprehended by security and dragged away from the red carpet ( photo ), but not before grabbing hold of Ferrera's ankle ( photo ). Ferrera was visibly shaken ( photo ) however she tried to remain calm and collected despite the violation ( photo ). The other co-stars on the other hand were left in shock and shaking their heads.

New York magazine interviewed the actress and she opened up about the experience.

"It felt like a crazy weird dream. It was like, 'I was at Cannes in my dream. I was on the red carpet and Cate Blanchett was next to me, and then some guy jumped under my dress!'"

The actress said that of all the things that she was prepared for, having someone creep under her gown wasn't among them. The interviewer suggested that the experience was "kind of violating" to which Ferrera said "I agree with that statement."

According to New York Daily News , despite America Ferrera's shock over the incident, she enjoyed her experience at the French film festival. She likened her experience to a coronation event and said that it was the closest thing she could ever imagined being crowned like the Queen of England.

Entertainthis  reported that this is not the first time Sediuk had "pranked" Hollywood stars. In January, he had to be pried loose from hugging Bradley Cooper near his crotch during the Screen Guild Awards in LA ( photo ). Also, there was a time in May 2012 where he was shoved and slapped by an angry Will Smith, after having kissed the actor on the red carpet at the Moscow premiere of "Men in Black 3" ( photo ). Then, in 2013, he rushed to the stage when Adele was making her acceptance speech during the Grammy Awards. Sediuk was led off stage by Jennifer Lopez while shouting "I Love you, Adele" ( photo ).

Vitalii Sediuk ( photo ) has escaped jail time despite the many "violating pranks" he had committed.

A man is arrested by security as he tries to slip under the dress of actress America Ferrera (C) as she poses on the red carpet arriving for the screening of the film "How to Train Your Dragon 2" out of competition at the 67th Cannes Film Festival in Cannes May 16, 2014. From R, Cast members Djimon Hounsou, Cate Blanchett, America Ferrera, Kit Harington and Jay Baruchel.

A man is arrested by security as he tries to slip under the dress of actress America Ferrera (C) as she poses on the red carpet arriving for the screening of the film "How to Train Your Dragon 2" out of competition at the 67th Cannes Film Festival in Cannes May 16, 2014. From R, Cast members Djimon Hounsou, Cate Blanchett, America Ferrera, Kit Harington and Jay Baruchel.

(L-R) Cast members Jay Baruchel, Kit Harington, America Ferrera, Cate Blanchett, and Djimon Hounsou pose on the red carpet as they arrive for the screening of the film "How to Train Your Dragon 2" out of competition at the 67th Cannes Film Festival in Cannes May 16, 2014.

America Ferrera at the Cannes Film Festival for the Premiere of 'How to  Train Your Dragon 2'

A man is arrested by security as he tries to slip under the dress of actress America Ferrera (3rdR) as she poses on the red carpet arriving for the screening of the film "How to Train Your Dragon 2" out of competition at the 67th Cannes Film Festival in Cannes May 16, 2014. From R, Cast members Djimon Hounsou, Cate Blanchett, America Ferrera, Kit Harington and Jay Baruchel.

We value your privacy. Your email address will not be shared.
