
Coulson Group of Companies has its C-130 Hercules, a slow-flying fixed-wing aircraft, on contract to U.S. Forest Services, owner Wayne Coulson said Sunday.

“We were the first aircraft to the Camp Pendleton fire on Wednesday,” said Coulson, who stations firefighting aircraft at nearby San Bernadino.

“We’ve been working that fire right up until [Saturday],” he said.

The plane was then diverted to a fire beside the San Diego freeway “and we dumped a few loads on that,” said Coulson.

Coulson keeps his aircraft in San Bernardino because it’s within 40-minutes flying time to three large forests in southern California. He’s got a 10-year contract with the USFS.

“That’s our game right now,” said Coulson, who a few years ago had the iconic Hawaii Mars working California wildfires.

Coulson’s C-130 is the only turbo-prop aircraft in the fleet fighting California wildfires. The others are jets which lack the manoeuvrability of the C-130 in mountainous terrain.

That Second World War-vintage Hawaii Mars, the largest waterbomber in the world, is now retired from firefighting and parked alongside the Philippine Mars at Coulson’s base on Sproat Lake near Port Alberni. Talks are in the final stages to find new homes, perhaps in museums, for the old water bombers. They began as troop carriers for the U.S. Navy, then were converted into water bombers and owned by a consortium of forest companies in B.C.

Coulson bought them in 2007 and set the aircraft to work in B.C. and several American states.

Contracts have been hard to secure of late because many jurisdictions are hiring newer, more efficient water bombers.

NOTE: To post a comment you must have an account with at least one of the following services:                     Disqus, Facebook, Twitter, Google+                     You may then login using your account credentials for that service.                     If you do not already have an account you may register a new profile with Disqus                     by first clicking the "Post as" button and then the link: "Don't have one? Register a new profile".

The Times Colonist welcomes your opinions and comments.                     We do not allow personal attacks, offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations.                     We reserve the right to edit comments for length, style, legality and taste and reproduce them in print, electronic or otherwise.                       For further information, please contact the editor or publisher, or see our Terms and Conditions.

Find out what's happening in your community and submit your own local events.
