
The Alamogordo City commission at its meeting last week reviewed the possibility of opening areas of Bonito Lake but now might not be the time according to city staff.

At the request of District 5 City Commissioner Al Hernandez, city staff assessed the possibility of opening the Bonito Lake Campgrounds for recreational use.

According to city documents, city staff travelled to Bonito Lake in late April to make their assessment. Assistant City Manager Matt McNeile presented their findings to the commission.

McNeil said  he felt there are areas that maybe ready to be opened to the public - the Westlake campground and the Blue Hole/Apple Orchard Campground. According to city documents, city staff estimates there are more 139 campsites between the two areas.

McNeil said it could take the city 30 days to do initial work to the area. Preparation to the campgrounds include the start and repair, if needed, to the water system, roads grading, debris removal, placement of porta-potties, control gates and general clean up.

"The big issue we do not know is the water system, which is part of the Westlake Campground. We don't know the current condition that is in right now because it has not been utilized for about two years since the fire," he said. "That water system is the one that feeds the Westlake Campground and the restrooms and the all potable water."

City Manager Jim Stahle said part of the concern with opening the campgrounds is limited access into and out of the area. According to city documents, a "well thought out evacuation plan will have to be developed as a result of the new canyon flow patterns cause by the Little Bear Fire. Other hazards include forest closure due to forest fires, dead trees that could fall in the campground areas."

Stahle said he would like to open the campgrounds as fast as they can but he had some words of caution.

"We are going to have to be very cautious about when we pull the plug on having people camp there, so we really got to study this a little bit," he said. "I don't know that we are really ready this summer for example, it is going to take a while to get our act together and open it back up."

Stahle said the that there could be serious flooding issues and mud slide concerns in the case of a water event in the watershed above the campground, particularly in the south area of the lake, which hasn't had a significant rain event since the fire,.

He suggested not opening the area this summer but to try to have it open for next summer.

Stahle said the city will still have to dredge the lake and doesn't know when and how that will affect the area or operations. He said that in talks with the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish, the department was reluctant to restock the lake with until after the dredging was complete.

Stahle said the city had to do many things as well for the area such as clean up and address safety concerns which would cost the city.

City staff estimated that the cost to operate the campgrounds for four months would be $89,760 based on historic data over the last three years, according to McNeil. He said the cost to operate the area was not budgeted in this 2014-15 fiscal year's budget. The city also estimated that it could receive $73,000 from permit fees from camping and picnicking, and wood sales.

"It's is a big deal for all of us. We would like to get it done right as soon as we can," Stahle said.
