
The International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) announced today       that Robert F. Welanetz, global retail real estate advisor for       Blackstone Real Estate Partners, has been elected by ICSC’s Board of       Trustees to serve as the association’s chairman for the 2014–2015 term.       Mr. Welanetz assumed his role as Chairman on May 19, 2014 during RECon,       ICSC’s annual meeting in Las Vegas. Mr. Welanetz is the association’s 55th Chairman, succeeding David J. LaRue, president and CEO of Forest City       Enterprises, Inc.

Welanetz, one of ICSC’s most active members, began his career 35 years       ago at the Hahn Co., where he held executive positions in development,       management, and investor relations. While there he was involved in the       development of such iconic centers as Horton Plaza in San Diego, and       Fashion Show Mall in Las Vegas. He went on to serve as senior vice       president of operations and leasing for Pan Pacific Development;       managing director of retail at The Yarmouth Group; head of Lend Lease       Retail Americas; and president and CEO of Jones Lang LaSalle Americas,       Retail. His career then took him to Asia, where he was president and CEO       of Shanghai Kinghill Ltd. and co-chairman of Chia Tai Real Estate, which       are real estate subsidiaries of The CP Group, a Thailand-based       international conglomerate.

“Being named chairman of ICSC is a significant honor and I will strive       to build on the work of prior chairmen to advance the organization’s       mission and service to members,” said Welanetz to the ICSC Board of       trustees in accepting the position.

Now based in Atlanta, Welanetz advises Blackstone Real Estate Partners       on sourcing and creating investment strategies, underwriting acquisition       targets and determining strategic asset management guidance for retail       real estate for Blackstone’s global real estate portfolio.

“Bob’s career has flourished in tandem with ICSC’s growth over the       decades,” said Michael P. Kercheval, president and CEO of ICSC. “His       experience in multiple property sectors and markets, combined with his       current position at Blackstone, gives him a panoramic view of our       industry and is therefore the ideal choice to be ICSC’s next chairman,”       Kercheval added.

A member of ICSC since 1982, Welanetz is a past member of the Board of       Trustees, served on the Executive Committee from May 2003 to May 2008,       and was Southern Division vice president from 2002 to 2005. Welanetz has       been both a student and a teacher in ICSC’s educational programs. He       obtained his CSM certification in 1983 and his CRX this year. He was CSM       Admissions and Governing Committee chairman in the mid-1990s, and for       years served on the faculty of both ICSC’s University of Shopping       Centers and its John T. Riordan School for Professional Development, in       the U.S. and abroad.

Welanetz is a graduate of Colorado State University and of executive       management courses at INSEAD, the global business school. He has served       on the board of Australia-based Galileo Americas Trust and on the       advisory board of the National Association of Realtors. He is currently       on the advisory boards of Mokard, a China-based retail technology sales       and marketing company; and Sino/U.S. Holdings, a U.S. based investor in       China market consumer product companies. He is also on the supervisory       board of Netherlands-based Multi Corp.

Welanetz lives in Atlanta with his wife, Karen Spencer-Welanetz, and has       three children: Colby, Jack and Parker.

Founded in 1957, ICSC is the premier global trade association of the       shopping center industry. Its more than 66,000 members in over 100       countries include shopping center owners, developers, managers,       marketing specialists, investors, retailers and brokers, as well as       academics and public officials. For more information, visit www.icsc.org .
