
Jason Lim conducts the Odysseus Chamber Orchestra through a performance. The Denton-based orchestra looks to make McKinney its new performance home.

This fall, McKinney will add another trademark to its arts scene: Odysseus Chamber Orchestra, a professional group that aims to grow its Denton roots in Collin County’s seat.

“McKinney is going to be our new home,” said Jason Lim, the orchestra’s artistic director and conductor.

Stringed melodies will first resound downtown Nov. 2 at Heard-Craig Hall. The orchestra will perform Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 on April 26 at McKinney Performing Arts Center.

Comprised of up to 40 professional musicians – a harmony of paid performers, music teachers and experienced students – the orchestra enters its third season with a new-area tune. It will also play two performances at First United Methodist Church in Frisco.

Lim reached out to Annie Royer, head of McKinney’s Arts and Music Guild, and settled on the city as a place to grow the orchestra upon discovering the McKinney Arts Commission and its affinity for supporting local arts groups and initiatives.

Founded in 2012, OCO has performed several times in Denton and most recently got third place in the orchestral division of the 2013 American Prize Competition, which awards and recognizes performing arts groups around the nation.

Lim, born in Malaysia, received formal training at the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts and the Canberra School of Music in Australia. He was a conductor with the Abilene Summer Music Festival for more than 10 years and served as music director of the NOVA Ensemble of North Texas.

Aside from teaching private lessons, Lim puts his skills and musical soul into OCO. The orchestra’s mentorship program enables Texas Music Educators Association All-State musicians to perform alongside professionals – a program OCO looks to expand in Collin County.

As a nonprofit organization not yet as established as groups like the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, OCO provides similar quality at a much lower price, Lim said. Musical selections rival esteemed orchestras but remain “fun and accessible to audiences, as well,” Thompson said.

The orchestra is organizing a collaborative, mid-spring performance with Collin County Ballet Theatre, and the Guild hopes to next year add OCO to its Summer Music Intensives, classes for and performances by local young musicians. OCO also plans to one day establish a youth orchestra in the area.

Royer said downtown residents are already excited about having a community orchestra perform a short walk away. She sees it growing in size and quality much like McKinney Community Band has in recent years.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 11:08 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
