
Login to comment or to shop for deal of the day or books.

PAXTON — An assistant Livingston County prosecutor has been chosen to succeed Matt Fitton as Ford County's next state's attorney.

The Ford County Republican Central Committee selected Randy Yedinak of Pontiac to appear on the Nov. 4 general election ballot as the Republican candidate for state's attorney.

A special panel headed by Ford County Board Chairman Rick Bowen was also in agreement with the Republican party's selection.

Bowen said he will recommend the county board appoint Yedinak to the job at its June 9 meeting. Yedinak's appointment will take effect once Fitton is seated as Ford County circuit judge on June 27, and the appointment will run through the Nov. 4 general election, when both the Ford County Republican and Democratic parties will have the chance to place candidates on the ballot to run for the remaining two years of Fitton's four-year term.

Ford County GOP Chairman Tom Bennett said his party and Bowen's six-member panel interviewed "four strong candidates" for the state's attorney's job on Saturday, including Yedinak and attorneys Lance Camp of Paxton, Andrew Killian of Gibson City and Erik Gibson of Galesburg.

Of those, Yedinak stood out based on his experience and knowledge, Bennett said.

"I am excited for the voters and residents of Ford County, as Randy Yedinak will bring a good mix of experience and knowledge to his new position," Bennett said. "We will work to help Randy get around the county to meet voters, and he will also be at our June 14 monthly Republican meeting."

"I have been proud of the process by which Randy Yedinak was selected, and I am excited about the future in Ford County," added Bowen, who was joined on his special selection panel by Gibson City Police Chief Steve Cushman, Paxton Police Chief Bob Bane, Paxton Mayor Bill Ingold, Roberts Village Board President Rick Flessner and Gibson City attorney Stephen Weeks.

"I believe Randy will provide strong leadership and will represent our county well," Bowen said.

Yedinak has been a registered attorney since November 2008 and serves as first assistant state's attorney under Livingston County State's Attorney Seth Uphoff. He is one of three assistant prosecutors in Livingston County and handles the majority of the office's felony cases.

Yedinak has been working for the Livingston County State's Attorney's Office since 2011. From 2008-11, he was an assistant state's attorney in DeKalb County in northern Illinois. From 2007-08, as he was completing law school, he worked as a clerk at the DeKalb County State's Attorney's Office.

Will Brumleve is editor of the Paxton Record, a News-Gazette community newspaper. For more, visit paxtonrecord.net.

News-Gazette.com embraces discussion of both community and world issues. We welcome you to contribute your ideas, opinions and comments, but we ask that you avoid personal attacks, vulgarity and hate speech. We reserve the right to remove any comment at our discretion, and we will block repeat offenders' accounts. To post comments, you must first be a registered user, and your username will appear with any comment you post. Happy posting.
