
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Two men are hospitalized with gunshot wounds after a police-involved shooting on Fleet Avenue Monday afternoon, officials said.

Cleveland Police Chief Calvin Williams said Fourth District officers responded to a report of a man shot at 12:30 p.m. near East 57th Street and Fleet Avenue, near Daisy's ice cream shop.

Police found one man shot in the leg, Williams said, and paramedics rushed him to MetroHealth Medical Center. His age and condition were not available.

Officers got a description of the suspect as a man on a bicycle, and about 20 minutes later located a person who matched the description, police said.

When an officer tried to stop him and question him, Williams said the man fled on his bicycle, before ditching it and running on foot.

Two officers chased the man down an alleyway near Fleet Avenue and East 56th Avenue, police said. As he ran, the man reached into his waistband, pulled out a handgun and turned back toward the tailing officers, according to union officials.

The officers drew their weapons, one officer fired a shot and the man dropped, Williams said.

Investigators later found the weapon on the roof of a building at the corner of East 57th Street and Fleet Avenue, where police said the man must have tossed the gun after he was shot.

The second victim was also rushed to MetroHealth Medical Center. Again, his age and condition were not immediately available.

Larry Widner, who has lived on the same block of Fleet Avenue as the shooting his entire life, said the neighborhood has been riddled with crime in the last 10-15 years.

"Fleet Avenue used to be nice," Widner said. "But now you better be inside after dark."

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.   To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
