
Denver Hotels like Hotel Teatro welcome visitors to popular summer things to do in Denver like the City Park Jazz Festival.

Denver Hotels like Hotel Teatro are gearing up to welcome the first of summer’s visitors who will come to enjoy the many outdoor things to do in Denver along with some of the most popular summer events.

Visitors can learn about Greek culture, traditions, food and more with a visit to the Greek Festival. Traditional dancers and vendors selling handmade goods are also part of this popular thing to do in Denver.

Several states host their own comic cons, but the Denver Comic Con is one of the largest in the country. Celebrity guests, panel discussions, and the chance to buy hard-to-find collectibles are just a few of the features of this Denver event that draw thousands of sci-fi and comic book fans to Denver Hotels each year.

All summer long, visitors can enjoy free jazz concerts at one of the most beautiful parks in the city. A different band will take to the stage each week to delight the crowds.

PrideFest is a way to celebrate equality with the whole family. This thing to do in Denver is one of the largest pride gatherings in the country. Organizers have made sure to focus on the family, and many kid-friendly activities will be available.

Located in Downtown Denver, Hotel Teatro - A Denver Hotel is located across from the Denver Center for Performing Arts.   The luxury, Four-Diamond Boutique Denver Hotel features 109 exquisite Guest Rooms and Suites. The Denver Hotel’s meticulously-restored historic façade and newly renovated lobby has been distinguished as one of the “Top Hotels in the World” by Expedia and one of the “World’s Best 50 City Hotels in the US” by Travel + Leisure.

With its moniker derived from the Italian word for Theater, Hotel Teatro delivers thoughtfully-curated collection of experiences, 24-hour Room Service and exemplary guest amenities including pet pampering and wellness programming.

Visiting Denver?  Choose Hotel Teatro - A Denver Hotel, Check Rates , Make a Reservation or call:  888.727.1200.
