
Police officers seen with their backs against the wall near the burnt Trade Unions House on Maidan Nezalezhnosti square in Kiev, where clashes began between protesters and the police.

HARRISBURG (VR) – Police officers and protesters are being shot by unidentified snipers in Kiev. Paramilitary units comprised of members of extreme right-wing mobs are being sent to suppress popular protests in Eastern Ukraine by force. Dozens of political activists are being burned alive in the middle of the port city of Odessa for opposing the government. Not since the bloody civil war in Yugoslavia has Europe seen political violence and civil strife on this scale.

The current crisis in Ukraine is but the latest in a series of geopolitical conflagrations resulting from an aggressive U.S. foreign policy designed to maintain and expand Washington’s global dominance. As the Allies emerged victorious in the Second World War and a newly manifest rivalry between the American and Soviet superpowers began to take shape in the Cold War, the United States sought to camouflage the expansionist goals of its foreign policy with crude anti-communist rhetoric. Washington sought the role of the savior and protector of the Western world against the onslaught of “barbaric” Soviet communism. As the United States was passing through the tumultuous 1960’s, a new political movement arose, combining an ideological zeal, usually associated with the revolutionary left, with a conservative brand of American patriotism and an overtly expansionist foreign policy. Neoconservatives, or “neocons”, as the proponents of the new ideology referred to themselves, advocated taking a particularly tough line towards the Soviet bloc, using democracy promotion and human rights campaigns to justify unbridled interference in the internal affairs of America’s geopolitical adversaries. As the decades passed, neoconservatives made their way from beltway think tanks to the highest political offices in the country, counting among their supporters Vice President Dick Cheney and former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton.

Washington’s apparent victory in the Cold War with the Soviet Union from 1989 to 1991 hardly slowed down major figures in the neoconservative movement. The Soviet Union’s place as the main threat to America’s security was quickly taken over in the neoconservative imaginary by the specter of Islamic fundamentalism, a rising China and a “resurgent” Russia. Hardly any American military adventures overseas from the Vietnam War to the disastrous U.S. invasion and occupation of Iraq in 2003 went without explicit support from the neoconservative camp.

Seeking to secure and extend the advantages gained over their former Cold War rival, Western political and military leaders disavowed a promise made to Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev not to expand NATO beyond Germany’s eastern borders. Despite loud and continuous objections from Moscow, Washington and its Western European allies moved for rapid NATO expansion in Eastern Europe, finally bringing the military alliance directly to Russia’s borders when Poland and the Baltic states gained full membership. As a new Republican administration with strong neoconservative leanings came into office in 2001, Ronald Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) was suddenly reanimated in a new form, with plans to build American missile interceptor bases in Poland and the Czech Republic. President George W. Bush’s decision to withdraw from the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) treaty in 2002 and Washington’s continual refusal to sign a pledge that the construction of new bases in Eastern Europe is not aimed against Russia further escalated the tensions between East and West.

In the summer of 2008, at the height of the presidential campaign in the United States, the president of the Republic of Georgia, Mikhail Saakashvili, closely tied to the campaign of hawkish anti-Russian senator John McCain and his neoconservative coterie, ordered the Georgian army to launch an all-out assault on neighboring South Ossetia, killing dozens of Russian peacekeepers stationed on the border in the process. It was later revealed that John McCain’s foreign policy aide and a board member of the neoconservative Project for the New American Century (PNAC), Randy Scheunemann, advised the Georgian leader in the months prior to the invasion. Tbilisi’s military assault was quickly rebuffed by the Russian army and South Ossetian defense units, but the episode made clear to the Russian leadership that Washington and its allies are prepared to organize provocations and resort to illegal military action along Russia’s borders in the same manner as they had done previously in the Middle East, the Balkans, and other regions of the world.

Throughout the Cold War and following its conclusion, Ukraine has attracted special attention from Western strategists. Its geographic location, access to Black Sea ports and a strong industrial base all but guaranteed Western attempts to dislodge Kiev from its centuries old alliance with fraternal Russia and Belarus. During the first decade of the Cold War, American and NATO intelligence services actively assisted pro-Nazi Ukrainian insurgents fighting under the leadership of Stepan Bandera in their struggle with the Soviet armed forces in Western Ukraine. Thousands of Ukrainian and other Eastern European Nazi collaborators, some with a history of war crimes in their past, were allowed to move to the United States after the war to assist Washington in its anti-Soviet crusade. Ukrainian nationalist émigré organizations and think tanks were set up in the United States, Canada and Western Europe to foster the creation of a community that could be used to destabilize the situation in Ukraine and serve America’s geopolitical goals.

With the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the emergence of an independent Ukraine, the United States adopted a policy of encouraging the Ukrainian political leadership in Kiev to move further away from its historic alliance with Russia and closer to the West. Cultural, religious and economic ties between Russia and Ukraine notwithstanding, the new Ukrainian government, with help from Western advisors and NGOs, adopted a more adversarial approach to Russia, and introduced new programs in the country’s secondary and higher education institutions to reflect a new approach to Russia. The linguistic rights of the Russian-speaking population, comprising the majority in Ukraine’s eastern and southern regions, were gradually curtailed and Ukrainian was imposed as the only official language. Extreme right-wing movements and organizations like Oleg Tyagnibok’s “Svoboda” were created to instill hatred of Russia and ethnic minorities among members of the younger generation in Ukraine.

Last year, seething from the refusal of Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovich to sign an EU association treaty that was detrimental to Ukraine’s economic interests and fearing Kiev’s entrance into a Customs Union agreement with Russia, Washington and its allies encouraged and assisted Ukrainian nationalist formations such as the neo-fascist “Right Sector” and right-wing mobs in protesting and overthrowing the democratically elected president of Ukraine, whose election only a few years earlier was recognized as legitimate by Washington and other Western capitals. Ignoring widespread violence caused by armed nationalist gangs in Kiev and other Ukrainian cities, Barack Obama’s White House and the State Department threw their full support behind the protesters, sending Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland, known for her strong neoconservative credentials to mingle and pass out cookies to the crowds in Kiev’s Maidan square.

Washington’s support for the overthrow of a democratically elected leader should come as no surprise. In her 1979 article “Dictatorships and Double Standards” in the neoconservative “Commentary” magazine, the future U.S. ambassador to the United Nations Jean Kirkpatrick argued that dictatorial regimes can be divided into two categories – authoritarian and totalitarian, the first being Washington’s allies and deserving its support, and the latter being closer to the Soviet Union and thus, deserving to be criticized for lack of democratic process and human rights violations, and ultimately subject to overthrow. Naturally, the American foreign policy establishment finds it quite easy to extend the same thinking towards democratically elected leaders.

The overthrow of president Yanukovich on February 21 and the almost immediate recognition by Western governments of the new provisional government under Aleksandr Turchinov that came to power as a result of the coup is but one example of double standards applied by U.S. foreign policy managers in their quests for global hegemony. The U.S. State Department frequently criticizes Russia and other nations for violations of human rights, and at the same time openly supports a government in Kiev that is sending military units to kill civilians in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Washington presents itself as a bastion in the worldwide fight against racism, anti-Semitism and other forms of xenophobia, and yet it encourages right-wing nationalist parties and organizations in Ukraine that openly espouse russophobia and anti-semitism, and act on their beliefs. The United States and its NATO allies recognize the results of an independence referendum in the Yugoslav province of Kosovo, and yet they refuse to recognize the results of a similar referendum in Crimea, where the vast majority of the population voted to rejoin Russia after being summarily “gifted” to Ukraine sixty years ago by then Soviet premier Nikita Khruschev.

Ukraine has now become the latest target in America’s battle to sustain its status as the sole superpower. It will now be up to Russia, China and other nations willing to challenge Washington’s dictate in Eastern Europe to help extricate the United States from its current adventure in Kiev. The fate of tens of millions of Ukrainians hangs in the balance.
