
Ukraine’s Right Sector ultra-right movement is forming a special battalion, Donbass-2, tasked with waging a large-scale guerilla war in eastern Ukraine and Crimea, Right Sector leader and Ukrainian presidential candidate Dmitry Yarosh said in a pre-election TV debate on Sunday.

Yarosh, for whom an arrest warrant was issued in Russia in absentia for crimes committed in Chechnya, vowed to return Crimea, now part of Russia, to Ukraine, hoping to achieve that through unleashing a guerilla war on the peninsula and through provocations using Crimean Tatars.

"We need to unleash a guerilla war and exploit the Crimean-Tatar factor. Crimea has been and will remain Ukrainian. It will be large-scale guerrilla war fought by volunteer units already being formed in Donbass. We have one battalion already, Donbass-1, and are forming Donbass-2 and Donbass-3," Yarosh said.

"We maintain permanent contact with our field commanders and coordinate our activity in the Donetsk region… Instead of frontal attacks, we need to click-shoot separatist leaders in the east," he said.

Federalization must not be given a chance, he added.

European Parliament deputy from Latvia Tatyana Zhdanok (Tatjana Ždanoka) has requested fellow MPs to support her demand that the European Commission (EC) includes the radical movement Right Sector in the list of terrorist organizations, Zhdanok's press office told TASS on Wednesday.

If the request is satisfied, bank accounts of this organization and all its members will be frozen, the radicals will not be able to enter EU countries, while governments of different countries will cooperate for political isolation and detention of the militants. However, Zhdanok believes "it is the Ukrainian interim government that is to bear the main responsibility for defeating the Right Sector, as it will have to finally draw a clear line between political organizations and far-right extremists".

"This line is now vague, and a number of state posts are occupied by radicals of fascist views, their reputation besmirched with participation in violent actions against their opponents or law enforcement authorities," Zhdanok added.

"After the appalling tragedy in Odessa, where Right Sector militants burnt 43 supporters of Ukraine’s federalization alive, the need to prohibit the Right Sector became evident. And an ordinary ban on its activities is inadequate here - there is a need to defeat this extremist organization, disarming its militants, arresting activists and court trial," the deputy said.

Maidan fighters will join the Interior Ministry's national guard, special public order units, army territorial battalions and other armed groups operating and created by the authorities in order to "defend Ukraine".

The core duties of the self-defense forces will be "to form various government security units within the shortest period of time and fill them with patriots who will mount an armed defense of Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence," and "maintain public order in non-combat areas, form the reserve and provide material and technical aid to regular battalions," according to the document, Interfax reports.

Yarosh was supposed to appear in the ShusterLive television program on Friday, however, he did not take part in it because, according to the press-service of his grouping, he went to Slavyansk to participate in the "final stage" of the military operation.

Despite the statements of the Kiev authorities and, in particular, Dmitry Yarosh that today, Slavyansk will be fully mopped-up, everything is relatively quiet in the city so far. It is safe to say that the Ukrainian army has not yet passed over to active offensive actions today. In the morning, shots were heard in Slavyansk, but, apparently, they came from the outskirts of the city. As for the center of Slavyansk, it is still under full control of the militia.

All rights reserved.
