
More recently, the move to transfer federally-owned public lands to state ownership was started on a higher level—in state capitols across the West.

In April, representatives from nine states in the West—the states where federal land accounts for anywhere from 29 percent 81 percent of the total area—met to discuss the possibilities and necessary measures for taking state control of federal lands.

The effort is led by Utah, which passed the Transfer of Public Lands Act in 2012 with bipartisan support. The act demands the return of federal lands to Utah by the end of 2014. Five other states have created commissions or committees to study the costs and benefits of such legislation.

Utah Representative Ken Ivory sponsored Utah’s bill. Ivory is also an attorney and mediator, and has been in the Utah House of Representatives since 2011. He said right now they are focusing on implementation of the act.

“We’ve been told for years that we gave up the right to that land for the privilege of becoming a state. In the enabling acts that granted statehood to these western states, the federal government promised to dispose of this land, not keep it forever,” Ivory said.

“Part of the argument in FLPMA is that retention is a form of disposal,” Falen said.

One of the major issues in federal lands management is defining what the national interest is, and what action will most benefit it.

Wagner says much of the push for the transfer has been from large energy interests who are looking for a way to lessen the government oversight and regulations, providing more opportunity for development.

“Its not so much a legal question as we believe firmly in the value of having federal lands. I think the public at large is very supportive of having public lands,” Blaeloch said.

Ivory said much of the effort for regaining local control of those lands is being driven by officials on a county level—the people who are dealing with the management issues on the ground.

Falen said some counter that view by pointing out that ultimately the federal agencies are controlled by Congress, which is subject to election. However, he says most Western states have so little representation and Congress is so far removed from the actual management that it’s not very realistic to say that’s effective representation on these issues.

Falen said that ranchers in states like Washington, Oregon and California could actually end up in a worse situation if the state government, which is unfamiliar with and far-removed from practical experience on the ground, were to take over management of the land. “In those states with huge, pretty liberal populations, having a ranching operation with a grazing preference right that you’re dependent on that’s managed or regulated by the state government isn’t necessarily going to be an improvement,” he said.

Yes, I did this year for the first time.

Yes I do every year.

No I think it's a silly thing to do.
