
Your resource for exclusive content and insights from Social Media Today, and opportunities to reach our community of professionals.

Straight to the point – spoiler alert – social media signals (likes, shares, +1s) – are not direct SEO ranking signals.

Have you read otherwise? Yeah – me too. Almost daily I find new blog articles extolling the importance of Social Media as an SEO ranking factor.

There’s definitely confusion surrounding this issue, even within the SEO industry and among industry leaders. Search is very rarely cut and dry, but this issue seems to be especially confusing and misunderstood.

Google has done their share to add to the confusion. For starters, in 2010 Google spokesperson Matt Cutts released this video confirming that Twitter and Facebook links were, at that time, used as SEO signals.

In 2011, Google launched Google+ and announced “authorship markup” – a way to connect authors to their content. These changes allowed for direct access to, and control of, a social media platform by Google, and was an established step to identifying influencers. Both contributed to leading the SEO industry and marketers t0 believe that social media, specifically Google+, was going to become a greater influence on search.

But then  . . .

Clearly, it’s Google’s position, according to Cutts, that social signals are not influencing Google SEO – at least not yet.

Moz  and  Search Metrics  each publish very popular and interesting correlation studies regarding Search Engine Ranking factors.  In 2013 Social Media figured prominently in both, with Google +1′s being the top factor for each.  Although both publishers clearly identify them as “correlation” rather than causation studies- that message was often missed or overlooked by readers and bloggers.

Eric Enge and Mark Traphagen of  Stone Temple Consulting,  have produced some very interesting work on the impact of Social Signals and Google Authorship on SEO rankings this past year.

In this study, Eric Enge set out to measure the direct impact of Google+ shares on Google’s search engine rankings, and presented results that confirmed that “links and shares from Google+ and Facebook did behave like traditional web based links”.

His results were questioned by Matt Cutts, which apparently led to a on-stage discussion between Matt, Eric and Danny Sullivan from Search Engine Land. The discussion concluded with Eric agreeing to repeat the study, this time implementing some of Matt’s suggestions on how to improve it.

The study was designed to measure the impact that Google Plus “shares” had on discovery, indexing and ranking of content for non-personalized results.

A follow up “Google Hangout” offered interesting debate and questions among SEOs regarding the results, limitations, and methodology of the study.

“When you Like a web page it does not show up on your profile. Google has no access to see what you have Liked. This means that Google cannot tell when a respected authority has endorsed something via a Like or not [Tweet This]. They can, of course, execute the Javascript for Like buttons on a page, but once again, they can’t tell who has Liked the page. In other words, a Like purchased from Fiverr looks just the same to Google as a Like by the pre-eminent authority on a topic.

Indexing and Ranking of Facebook Share Links: although the data showed that Google did not even crawl the pages based on Facebook shares, Stone Temple concluded that they had too little data to make a conclusive determination.

Google can see who your “Friends” are through the mobile version of Facebook.

A soon to be published STC Twitter study apparently shows similar results – Twitter signals do not have a direct impact on Google’s search results.

“Why not? Trust me, Google would LOVE to incorporate social signals into the algorithm. For industries where people share content on social media, social shares generally correlate to quality. It’d be a great way for Google to get away from relying on links as much as they do.

They don’t own the platform. This is HUGE. Let’s say tomorrow Google made Facebook likes/shares 20% of the algorithm. For sake of argument, it worked really well and the quality of search results improved. The one day (Mark) Zuckerberg has a bad day and blocks (the) Googlebot. The SERPs are in turmoil without waring. Google would never do that.

“We’ve heard Matt Cutts say that social signals do not play a role when it comes to the SERPs, and although I don’t always believe everything Google says, I do believe this one. I personally have not seen any type of social signals make a difference in rankings for any clients or when I analyze my own presence online; however this does not mean that I don’t think it could play a role in the future!

In 2013, Search Metrics published their “SEO Ranking Factors – Rank Correlation for Google USA results. This showed a high correlation between social signals and ranking increases, particularly G+1′s and Facebook shares.

But this is only a correlation and that doesn’t always equal causation. The thinking behind this is; if your content is good enough to earn a lot of social shares then people will link to it too – it would typically be those backlinks (amongst many other factors) that would be driving rankings.

Your content is exposed to a much wider audience bringing brand awareness into play.

Referral traffic to your content which increases the likelihood that someone will link to your content.

The potential to increase your followers which leads to more visibility, returning traffic and the building of a community.

When your content is shared, this increases the trust associated with your brand, and when shared by a market influencer this can have a much bigger impact.

When someone you follow shares a link on G+, this (can) appear under search results when that particular page is displayed.

Google+ displays your friends +1′s in your stream, giving another opportunity for your content to gain traction.

When there are more social shares on a piece of content, the social proof factor begins coming into play, which in turn influences how many more social shares and backlinks that the content earns (amongst other benefits).

What I’ve noticed across the sites that I’ve been working on is that some content with very few social shares is outranking other pieces of content with a lot of social signals – the main influencers of rankings that I’m seeing appear to be backlinks from referring domains (authority sites) and the ‘freshness’ of the content.

Unquestionably! I’m in no way suggesting that you shouldn’t be on social media, or that it will not help your SEO efforts. It can, and it should definitely be part of your SEO strategy.

. . . all of which can lead to more websites and bloggers linking to your content and improved search engine rankings.

Intuitively, it makes sense for Google and the other search engines to include social signals as a direct ranking factor in Search, and I think most SEOs and marketers agree that social will one day play a direct role.

Continue to be active in social media. Make sure to be on Google+ as there are some good arguments as to why that would be the first, and possibly, the only social media signal that Google pays attention to.

Make sure to set up your Google Authorship.

Personally, I don’t think the number of “likes”, +1′s, or “shares” will be as important as who is engaging with your content. Build a relationship with industry “influencers”.

Worry less about the number of “followers” and “friends” that you have, and more about the quality and relevance of those friends and followers.

As is so often the case on search related issues, the last word is reserved for Matt Cutts.

Brent is the founder and president of Echelon SEO - an Idaho based Search Engine Optimization firm.

I am a husband, father to 2 great teens, business owner, holder of 2 master's degrees, wanna be writer, aspiring speaker, and out of shape cyclist.

Of all the social media marketing pros, gurus and ninjas you mention in your excellent guest post article Brent, I think Neil Patel put it best But so what? Social is still a valuable channel for promotion, content, distribution, virality, and sharing. Social is still a crucial aspect for search even if it doesn’t register as one of Google’s many algorithmic ranking factors. Which echos Guy Kawasaki's similar position on social media, that being "the single most important piece of advice is to accept the fact that social-media is the best way to drive traffic to your blog"

It's hardly surprising that it's the agencies with so much more to gain, constantly come out with these definitive studies.

Don't get me wrong, social media has a role to play in how a content ranks, but only indrectly. Contextual links are and will be for a very long time, the leading ranking signal.

Can you really see Google ranking content on the say so of a third party platform? No chance.
