
Work continues on the Southwest Michigan 1200B pipeline project  that was begun last fall by Consumers Energy,  despite a slight delay due to the weather.

Work continues on the Southwest Michigan 1200B pipeline project  that was begun last fall by Consumers Energy,  despite a slight delay due to the weather.

Terry DeDoes, public information director for Consumers Energy, discussed the delay and potential benefits of the project.

Even with the delay, DeDoes said he expects the project to be complete by November, as initially planned.

The estimated $120 million project will add 24 miles of new natural gas transmission pipeline in southwest Michigan, while running through six townships in Branch and St. Joseph counties, including Burr Oak, Colon, Matteson, Batavia, Union and Girard.

DeDoes outlined four major areas in which the project will benefit customers of Consumers Energy: job creation, safety, reliability and value.

The project will create around 175 jobs in the area and about $25 million in direct and indirect wages throughout the construction period, he said.

Because the new pipeline runs parallel  to another natural gas pipeline, Consumers Energy will be able to keep gas flowing while it performs routine safety inspections on either of the pipelines, the company said.

Additional pipeline also will  allow larger volumes of natural gas to be transported, which should protect customers from price spikes and fuel economic growth in Michigan.

Lastly, the project allows Consumers Energy to buy more natural gas during the summer, when it is at its lowest price, and transport it to the company’s underground storage fields to be distributed come winter when the demand for natural gas is much higher, DeDoes said.

The pipeline will run under a few major roads, but travelers shouldn’t see any problems, he said.

DeDoes said work near I-69 is finished, and that boring under M-86 should not affect traffic in that area.

Consumers Energy considers the pipeline project part of a larger effort to improve natural gas infrastructure. The company plans to invest almost $500 million between 2012 and 2016 to inspect, assess and replace pipeline.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
