
EU and NATO should take a step back and make sure that Ukraine can have development outside both political entities and without their interference in its domestic affairs, Harry van Bommel, the Dutch Socialist Party MP told RT.

Harry van Bommel: We are very uncertain about   that, because there is enough money in Ukraine as it is, but it   is sometimes in the wrong pockets, and I am not sure whether   Ukraine will be able to return the money that it is borrowing   from the IMF. And of course the IMF usually has a program of   reform that is involved in their schemes, so we need to find out   what exactly the IMF program for Ukraine means for the short   term, but especially for the longer term. Corruption is endemic   in Ukraine. It is a central problem, it has to be addressed. But   also the country is more or less run by rich oligarchs that   really have the power in the country.

HB: Obviously, this is a matter for political   discussion. Those political parties who want Ukraine to become a   member of the EU, will be willing to spend billions of euro to   get Ukraine attached to the EU. My party, the Socialist Party   believes that it would be unwise to pressurize Ukraine to take   steps towards the EU.

HB: I think it is very short-term to have   elections in Ukraine. Obviously it is not up to us in Europe to   decide when there will be elections in Ukraine, but being an   elections monitor for OSCE in earlier times I know that it is   very difficult to organize elections in the short term, to make   the elections credible, to register voters and to have a free and   fair election process. I doubt very much whether this all will be   successful on such short notice, but it has been decided that   there will be elections, and we can only hope for the best.

HB: No, definitely not. What we see is that the   president who was elected in a fair and free election has been   ousted and the one who has come in place is very defused, also   with the influence of the extreme right. So we do not know where   Ukraine is heading. What we need in Ukraine is stability. Let's   hope that the writing of the new Constitution and fair elections   will eventually lead to stability in Ukraine.

The eastern regions have clearly shown that there has to be   decentralization of power in Ukraine. Only a new Constitution,   new politicians can work that out. The fact that already it is   known that the outcome of the elections may not be recognized is   as a problem, a major problem in Ukraine. The country is divided,   the people are divided, and we have to take that into account   with future plans for Ukraine. What is certain is that any   diplomatic solution for Ukraine has to be supported by the whole   people of Ukraine.

I think for stability it would be most important if we could see   a decentralization of power in Ukraine. That along with the   program to fight corruption could lead to stability. Those steps   have to be taken on the short term, in the coming months.

HB: We have to go back six years ago, with the   historical mistake that has been made at the NATO summit in   Bucharest in 2008. At that NATO summit it was decided that   Ukraine and Georgia would one day become members of NATO. It was   my conviction then, and it is today, that it was a huge mistake.   We have to step away from that decision, we have to undo that   decision, because I don't think that Ukraine and Georgia will   become NATO members. It is not in the interest of NATO and it   would not be in the interest of Georgia and Ukraine, because it   would be a different membership than other members [have]. An   Article 5 situation, when a country can reckon that NATO will   defend the member states, could arise around Georgia and Ukraine,   and no other member of NATO will take responsibility to defend   Georgia or Ukraine. It was a wrong decision and it should be   taken back. Then the EU started to try to get Ukraine under its   sphere of influence, that also was not a wise step. It was only   logical that there was a reaction from the eastern part [of   Ukraine]. We should come back on those initiatives, we should   make sure that Ukraine can have development outside the European   Union, without the EU interfering with domestic politics in   Ukraine, and the same goes for NATO.

I don't think it's in the interest of Russia to recognize   independence of these new small republics, it would be in   Russia's interests to have a stable neighbor, a stable Ukraine,   to have a reliable partner and to make sure that relations with   the EU and the rest of the world is restored. I think it would be   wise of Russia to seek a diplomatic solution to the situation.

Hey Hey, show some kind of education and do not insult, if you do not have arguments to debate better go to other site.

email before you can log in.

successfully!
