
George Weimer, '54, of Sebring, celebrated his granddaughter Emily Baumgardner's graduation from the University of Mount Union by passing down a fourth-generation pocket watch.

The tradition began with Weimer's father, George K. Weimer, a 1913 graduate of Mount Union, who received the watch from his aunt. When she first purchased the watch from Saks 5th Avenue, she had his initials engraved on the back.

After receiving his diploma, Weimer was drafted into the Army and served during the Korean War. His father kept the watch safe while Weimer was overseas, and then returned it to him once he had been discharged. He then married his wife, Shirley '56, two weeks later.

Weimer previously served as director of admissions for Mount Union, as well as an advisor for the Sigma Nu fraternity. His love for the purple and white was one of the first family traditions to be passed along to his granddaughter.

"I've grown up wearing Mount Union gear from my grandparents and I always imagined that I would go here too," said Baumgardner of Cincinnati. "I looked at other schools, but none could compete with Mount Union."

Once Baumgardner found her new home at the University of Mount Union, she started to make her own memories. A chemistry major, Baumgardner was focused on her studies and also stayed involved on campus. Following in her grandfather's footsteps, she joined Greek life and was a member of the Delta Sigma Tau sorority during her time on campus.

"It is always funny to see people's reactions when they find out I'm related to the man with all the walking sticks, and I guess it does feel like I'm related to a celebrity on campus, but to me he's just my grandpa," said Baumgardner.

In addition to seeing Weimer around campus, Baumgardner visited her grandparents on a weekly basis.

"When I came to Mount I got to see my grandparents much more often and our relationship has become a lot closer," said Baumgardner. "I would do laundry at their house on Sundays or join them for church and lunch, and it was always nice to see my grandpa in the cafeteria or on campus. Since I did go so far away from home I didn't know anyone coming into college so having family around was a real blessing."

For Weimer, nothing is more important than family and tradition. He kept the heirloom close to his heart in his vest pocket for many years, and upon Baumgardner's graduation, returned it to its original box and presented it to his granddaughter.
