
Ohio will consider tax breaks for Fuyao Glass America Inc. Tuesday.

The Ohio Tax Credit Authority will hold its monthly meeting Tuesday at 10 a.m. in Columbus. The five-member board votes for tax breaks for major economic development projects around the state, and the $200 million Fuyao project will be one of eight companies on the agenda.

Fuyao, which on Thursday bought a portion of the former General Motors plant in Moraine for $15 million, plans to invest at least $200 million in the 100-acre site, spinning up an auto glass manufacturing operation that will create 800 jobs. Chairman Dewang Cao came to Dayton Thursday and spoke at the I-70/75 Development Association meeting at Sinclair Community College where he praised the state’s business climate.

The project is a major new development for the 400-acre site in Moraine which once employed thousands for General Motors and Delphi, and would breathe new life into the 4.1 million square foot site which closed in 2008.

Fuyao will become a major supplier of auto glass from the new site, with its 1.2 million square foot facility producing glass for 4 million vehicles a year for major auto companies. The company plans additional investments in the United States, Cao said.

It’s also been has been incentivized with $700,000 from Montgomery County economic development funds as well as $600,000 from local government. The JobsOhio group will consider tax breaks on Fuyao’s commercial activity tax, typically deducting a percent of that tax as long as the company maintains operations at a site for a number of years.

Also on the Tax Credit Authority agenda is funding for AtriCure Inc., which is moving to a new headquarters in Mason, and General Electric Co, which is considering a project at a to-be-determined site.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
