
At 18, when many teenagers are getting their high school diplomas, Norman Frajman was recovering from tortures he had experienced during World War II.

Frajman, a native of Poland, immigrated to the United States and started a new life, but always regretted his lack of a degree. On Monday, this gap will be filled: Frajman will get an honorary sheepskin from the Palm Beach County School District, where he has volunteered for the past 16 years as the district's most energetic Holocaust speaker. He is the first survivor to receive the honor.

"Everything comes late in my life," said Frajman, 84, of Boynton Beach . "I had my bar mitzvah when I was 73 — 60 years late."

Frajman speaks to classes, assemblies, teachers and administrators almost daily, said Maureen Carter, the school district's Holocaust curriculum planner. She said students connect with his moving personal story and lack of bitterness about the loss of his family and tortures he experienced. She recommended him for the honor.

"He wears himself out ragged," Carter said. "We worry about his health."

Frajman was born in 1929 to a Jewish family in Warsaw. At 11, he worked as a messenger in the Warsaw Ghetto, created by the Nazis to confine Jews, and was able to smuggle food from the outside into the walled compound for its hungry Jewish inhabitants.

He escaped deportation to a concentration camp in 1942, but the next year, his family was transported to the notorious Majdanek camp, where his mother and sister were killed. He described Majdanek as "hell on Earth"; the young Frajman endured horrific slave labor, slept on straw amid lice and was surrounded by disease.

Frajman was sent to four more camps, including Buchenwald, suffered from typhus and survived a lengthy death march out of the camp as the Nazis tried to evade the Allies. After liberation, he went to Prague and worked as an interpreter.

He arrived in the United States in 1948, met his wife, Shelly, in the Catskills and eventually opened a textile business, with five stores on Long Island. They have two children and two grandchildren.

Frajman retired to Boynton Beach in 1998. He immediately became involved with South Florida's Holocaust remembrance groups and is now president of Child Survivors/Hidden Children of the Holocaust of Palm Beach County .

His speaking forays in South Florida schools led him to a 2003 trip with 27 local teachers to Auschwitz, where he had his bar mitzvah, spontaneously, at a synagogue outside the camp.

"As strong as you are, you can still fall apart in these situations," Frajman said. "They were there to pick me up."

Frajman said he has been amazed by the constant outpouring of warmth he receives at his talks, not only from teachers and administrators but from students.

"Today's young people are more receptive than any other generation," Frajman said. "They will never permit another Holocaust. We are in for a better tomorrow with them."
