
My wife and I recently took a weekend road trip to view the annual shore bird migration along the Washington coast. Because it was along our route, we made a short stop in the town of Satsop.

The above image of a cooling tower was taken at the unfinished Satsop nuclear power station, which is now serving as a development park. Use your left mouse button to click here to see a higher resolution image and then left click once again on that image to see an even higher resolution photo of this cooling tower. Now employ your mouse wheel to scroll up and down that high resolution photo. Use the stairs zigzagging along the side to get a sense of scale.

These designs are popularly associated with nuclear power plants. However, this association is misleading, as the same kind of cooling towers are often used at large coal-fired power plants as well.

The Didcot power station pictured above burns a combination of coal, natural gas, and oil. Note the use of six hyperboloid cooling towers. Cooling towers are used to condense the steam exiting the steam turbines back into liquid water to be converted into steam again and sent back through the turbines. This greatly reduces the amount of water lost as steam.

To get a sense of scale, note the eight foot high fence around the reactor containment structure on the left.  I’m always amazed by how diminutive the containment domes are–smaller than many oil, or municipal water storage tanks. These house the heart of a nuclear power plant; the reactor vessel which contains the nuclear fuel rods that boil the water to make the steam that spins the giant pinwheel (steam turbine) that is connected to the electric generator the sends electricity over the grid to our homes and cities. This is also the only part of a nuclear power plant that is different from other thermal power plants that use a different heat source (coal, biomass, natural gas, solar, geothermal).

The terms “nuclear reactor” and a “nuclear power plant” are often used interchangeably, which can be confusing because they are not the same thing.  A power plant (sometimes called a power station) may have more than one nuclear reactor (each inside its own containment structure) on site. The Fukushima power plant has six reactors (each inside a steel and concrete containment structure, which is in turn housed in a sheet metal outer building). Although three of the Fukushima power plant reactors were damaged beyond repair when a tsunami overwhelmed the emergency cooling pumps, the other three reactors could, in theory, still be used by the power plant to produce electricity. The Chernobyl nuclear power plant (the poster child for how to do nuclear energy wrong) continued to produce electricity using  its other reactors for well over a decade after one reactor (which had no containment dome) experienced a meltdown.

Energy Northwest (formerly Washington Public Power Supply System) is a United States public power joint operating agency formed by State law in 1957 to produce at cost power for Northwest utilities. Headquartered in Richland, Washington, the WPPSS became commonly known as “Whoops” due to over-commitment to nuclear power in the 1970s which brought about financial collapse and the second largest municipal bond default in U.S. history. WPPSS was renamed Energy Northwest in November 1998.

The directors and the managers of the system had no experience in nuclear engineering or in projects of this scale. System managers were unable to develop a unified and comprehensive means of choosing, directing, and supervising contractors. One contractor, already shown to be incompetent, was retained for more work. In a well-publicized example, a pipe hanger was built and rebuilt 17 times.

Note in the above graphic I put together (to better understand what had gone on) how radically different each power station is from the other. They have three different containment structure designs as well as three different cooling tower designs, and probably different everything else on the inside as well …unbelievable. The French and Canadians used one design which they repeated over and over again. The cost to build the first 777 airliner was astronomical. Imagine the expense of building a different airliner from the ground up for every customer.

Who predicted that fracking was going to usher in an era of cheap natural gas? If you were planning to build a wind farm to reduce the fuel bills of your new natural gas power plant, you might need to cancel the plans for the wind farm if it now costs more to build than it will save you in fuel bills. Almost as if to rub salt in a wound, a natural gas power plant was built adjacent to the defunct Satsop nuclear power plant to take advantage of the power lines that had been installed. Fossil fuels win again!

The fish and seafood from the Pacific Ocean has been testing positive for Fukushima radiation for months now! Anyone rating Pacific fish and seafood should be thinking about doing a radiation detox with the natural mineral called Zeolite that has been proven to safely remove both radiation and heavy metals from the human body! For more information due a simple search for the single word Zeolite.

Maybe not. The gap between “detectable level” and “biologically active level” of radiation is many many orders of magnitude. Radiation from “unnatural” sources is tremendously easy to detect, since the nuclear decay reactions carry each their own distinct signature energy levels. This is a neat thing since it can be used to uncover secret nuclear weapons research even if the actual leaks of radioactive substances are minuscule compared to the natural background radiation.

The amount of ‘Fukushima radiation’ detected in the fish and seafood is much much less than the radiation naturally in the fish and seafood before Fukushima. The increase is barely detectable and is not dangerous. Living in Denver rather than Seattle will cause more of a radiation risk than eating the fish or seafood.

But if you were worried then don’t eat the fish or seafood.

But if you still decide to eat it, remember zeolite has no proof it removes radiation or heavy metals and zeolite has not been approved or certified by the FDA to safely remove radiation or heavy metals. While other products, like Prussian Blue, do have scientific proof that they remove radiation and heavy metals. These products are also certified and approved by the FDA to remove radiation and heavy metals.

Oh, and Barry has a website that sells zeolite. He just forgot to mention that.

Zeolite has been successfully used to safely remove both radiation and heavy metals from the human body for many years including during the Chernobyl radiation release and meltdown. It has also been used in Fukushima to remove radiation. Zeolite does not need FDA approval because it is not sold as a big Pharma medication that will cost a lot of money and have to be sold only by a doctors prescription after an also expensive office visit because it is sold as a mineral supplement which is a benefit for the people that can easily purchase Zeolite and utilize its unique ability to remove both radiation and heavy metals from the body. Other forms of Zeolite are also being used to remove heavy metals from contaminated water to protect our environment. Also There are many resources for additional Zeolite information. Just do a simple search for the single word Zeolite! Nowhere in my postings have I asked anyone to purchase Zeolite products from me. I post to provide important information about this wonderful mineral for the publics benefit and welfare.

Barry claims successful use but refuses to provide any proof. The one report that someone else referenced was the use of zeolite IN COMBINATION with ferrocyanides, and ferrocyanides have been proven to work and have been certified by the FDA. But still no proof that zeolite does anything for radiation or heavy metals in the body.

Yes zeolites have been used to clean water. No one claims otherwise. there is plenty of scientific proof that it works. But cleaning water flowing through a passive bed of zeolite is worlds different than zeolite supposedly going throughout the body and actively removing heavy metals.

Nowhere in my posts have I claim that Borey asked anyone to purchase zeolite products from him, yet he keeps whining about this topic. Sounds like a guilty conscience.

And actually he provides absolutely NO INFORMATION about this clay mineral. He makes claims, but refuses to support those claims. That is not information, that is about as far from information as you can get.

But please check the science, see that there is none behind the internal use of zeolite for removal of radiation or heavy metals. Then you will have the real information to use to avoid snake oil scammers like Barry.

This was E-mailed to me by a doctor that could not get his software to post into this system.

Prussian blue [Fe4[Fe(CN)6]3 is basically a ferric ferrocyanide, that has to be given by prescription only and is good to remove heavy metals and SOME Radionuclides (Thallium or Cesium) from the gut. If the nuclides are systemic then one is S.O.L.

It is thought that Prussian blue binds to thallium within the intestinal tract – (CDC). It is thought is not proven either!

So if someone has way too much even you per prussian blue paint pigment, is too much too little too late because it can still kill you.

Also Prussian blue is by prescription only. Most doctors will not prescribe Prussian blue unless you are practically dying anyway , too much too little to late. WHY is that O’Brien. That is because they are afraid of losing their license. They are not allowed to officially acknowledge that Fukushima Radiation Problems exist, lest they lose their license.

After 30 years I can retire, so no skin off my nose but my co-workers is a different story.

So go eat some yourself and let us know how you fare!

On the other hand Clinoptilolite does indeed remove both radiation and heavy metals from the body. You just continue to lie to the readers saying anything you can in your weird sick vendetta against Mr Barry that has not asked anyone to purchase zeolite from his company and is only trying to help others that may have been radiated or need to reduce and remove heavy metals for their own better health. Also zeolite is listed as a mineral supplement that does not require paying  possibly hundreds of dollars just to see a physician to get a prescription to acquire any needed zeolite as a detox.

But what do you care Mike buffoon? By your own posts anyone can see that you could care less about the readers in here or anyone else’s life or well-being! In fact you would rather allow them to die because of lack of the helpful information Barry is tying to provide as long as you can hurt him and others just to satisfy your own sick and demented vanity.

Sorry Barry the belief in a massive world wide conspiracy of doctors and governments trying to suppress any ‘officially acknowledge that Fukushima Radiation Problems exist’, is just laughable.

Your claim that ‘This was E-mailed to me by a doctor that could not get his software to post into this system.’ is just another lie. It is a virtual direct copy of a post by a user named Westcoastrads from 12 hours ago on another one of the articles you post your BS at.

And there is still no proof that zeolite has any effect on radiation or heavy metals in human bodies. While there is proof that Prussian Blue does have beneficial effects and the FDA has approved it for use to remove radioactive materials from the human body.

Does Prussian Blue require a prescription? Yes, I never said it didn’t.

Does Prussian Blue have risks? Yes, I never said it didn’t.

Do lots of medicines have risks? Yes they sure do.

I also see you have again changed your theory as to why I post my comments. Can’t wait to see what delusional theory you come up with next.

In response to Mike O’Brien.

ELSES MONEY PRETENDING TO BE DISABLED.

THE QUESTION PUT TO YOU ABOUT PRUSSIAN BLUE.

AND NEED GENUINE INFORMATION.

man rather than help them.

I am a surgeon and I love helping people,

Medicine any More this day and age. I can personally testify to that. No I Am not Barry, nor do i know him. A further small-minded insult from you.

that you must spent 24 hours a day belching out your unlearned garbage.

UTTERLY CHILDISH AND SENSELESS.

Radiation problem.

I DO INDEED, SUGGEST TO YOU, AND ALL HERE,

SIR Mike, THAT YOU SEEM TO BE A PAID SHILL FOR THE NUCLEAR INDUSTRY.

In response to Westcoastrads. Sorry fool, you and Barry have made the claim, it is for you to prove it not for me to disprove it. Can’t believe a supposed doctor doesn’t understand simple logic like that.

I never said you were, but nice strawman. Typical of a quack.

Oh no, why are you calling Barry a liar? He ‘knows’ exactly who I am, or at least so he claims. but again he like you provides no proof.

I mean just the serious psychosis of believing in a world wide conspiracy about Fukushima should be enough to get a doctor’s license suspended.

And like others, I also noticed that the poster claiming to be “Barry” refers to himself in the 3rd person, as both “Barry” and “Mr. Barry”.  He also writes of “his company”, where most people would tend to say “my company” in referring to a company they themselves owned.

Why do you insist that Mike O’Brien reply to your biochemistry question “…without looking it up”?  What difference does it make?  Facts are facts.  Unless you’re a teacher running some kind of “closed-book” test for students.  Even that is questionable practice IMHO since in most real-world work situations you can (and often should) refer to any available documentation as needed.  In many technical fields, failure to RTFM (Read The…Manual) is a very common cause of error.

For the opportunity to being forced to use wind energy, the ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest get to pay more money on their bill. When wind displaces hydroelectric power, BPA has to raise their rates to cover the cost of debt not being paid because less power is produced by the dams. Pretty ironic. Clean, low-cost energy getting aced-out by expensive wind energy.

PS I worked at the Satsop plant many years ago when it was under construction. Would have been a good power plant, but alas, was not meant to be. I live in Kansas these days and miss the beautiful Pacific Northwest.

PSS Unlike the other WPPSS plants, Satsop was not being built by lads accustomed to working on federal projects. The union craft and contractors took great pride in what they did, worked hard and were highly skilled. Quite unlike Hanford on the other side of the mountains.

I remember that the construction crews were achieving higher monthly completion rates than most all other nuclear power construction projects. Ebasco was the CM and headquartered in Manhatten with several floors in the one of the World Trade Center towers hit on 9/11. The company was purchased by Raytheon Constructors which was purchased by Washington Group International (WGI) along with some former Westinghouse entities. URS (SF) purchased WGI in 2007.  Hard to keep track anymore.

Consumers power in Michigan had similar fiasco with nuclear power plant construction. They converted the plant to natural gas. Construction delays and ensuing cost skyrocketed per environmentalist strategy to run to courts for arbitrary environmental damage concerns. It appeared they could have continued the charade indefinitely. I worked in a steam trap company back then and was shocked at nuclear regulations. A simple steam trap and as you say separate from the reactor probably 100x the cost per over design, conformance cost, and low volume . I believe they lost reliability as compared to normal well proven processes and design components, but the regulations appeared more to be energized to make nuclear unaffordable.

Yes, citizens do think the curved cooling towers the hallmark of nuclear power, also when they see steam blooms rising skyward they curse power plant pollution. Same with steam stacks in industry, citizens think the regulatory industry is just to lax or insufficient.

World Nuclear Association has interesting study on cost comparison of power generation country by country. Nuclear is highly competitive. Funny, how U.S. on shore wind power is half or one third as expensive as other countries wind power. I think U.S. has some regulated cost benefits to wind power. Not good for taxpayers or cost of electric power billing.

If environmentalist believed their hype upon global warming danger, they would run to demand nuclear power, promote nuclear energy, and condone R&D efforts to make the energy source cost effective, reliable, safe, and more efficient.

The fish and seafood from the Pacific Ocean has been testing positive for Fukushima radiation for months now!

I heard this story on NPR. At the end of the story, the researcher who detected the radiation said that eating this fish every day for a year would be the radiation dose equivalent of about 30 minutes in your average basement.

There were two main  points I wanted to make in this article.

1) Non-nuclear power plants are also planned and abandoned …by the hundreds. This isn’t unique to nuclear.

2) A standard design would greatly reduce costs of construction.

In response to Mike O’Brien.

WHERE IS THE PROOF OF YOUR ANTISTATEMENTS AGAINST THE RADIATION PROBLEM, LET ALONE ZEOLITE. ARE YOU JUST A BORED SUPPOSEDLY SELF-EDUCATED COMPUTER JOCKEY LIVING ON SOMEONE ELSES MONEY PRETENDING TO BE DISABLED.

YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVEN THAT OU ARE MENTALLY INCOMPETANT.NOT ANSWERING FROM KNOWLEDGE CONCERNING THE QUESTION PUT TO YOU ABOUT PRUSSIAN BLUE.

I SUGGEST TO YOU SIR, THAT IN ANY COURT OF LAW THIS MAKES YOU AN ACESSORY AFTER THE FACT., IN COLLUSION AND COMPLETE INDIFFERENCE. WITHOUT CONCERN OF HOW YOUR ACTIONS HAVE, AND ARE HURTING OTHER PEOPLE WHO WANT AND NEED GENUINE INFORMATION.

People can do things to help themselves without prescription. You O’Brien tell them “No” and that you know better. COME NOW REALLY?? This shows an utter lack of any love or compassion for your fellow man and a sole desire to break your own arm off by patting yourself on the back. Trying to lord it over you fellow man rather than help them.

I am a surgeon and I love helping people, and especially with things that they don’t always have to have a prescription for. Since not all physicians will help on many matters for fear of losing their license over an NON-PC Act. Hence Medicine is not Medicine any More this day and age. I can personally testify to that.

Now it is most obvious to all that read anything about Fukushima that you must spent 24 hours a day belching out your unlearned garbage.

SINCE YOU CAN’T SCIENTIFICALLY REFUTE MANY MESSAGES SENT TO YOU, YOU THEN RESORT TO THE PUSILLANIMOUS TACTIC OF SMEARING THE MESSENGER. HOW UTTERLY CHILDISH AND SENSELESS.

. It is also apparent that Mike O’brien is a PSEUDONYM that you must hide behind, in order to STALK all other reporters of facts concerning the real truth of the Fukushima Radiation problem.

No, I am not.

Here are some suggestions. Learn to spell, get your Caps Lock key fixed, learn some basic law before making BS claims about it and finally get your doctor to adjust your medication as it is obviously not working properly.

So how is it apparent? And your buddy Barry doesn’t believe it is a pseudonym. Well he didn’t, no telling what delusion is rattling around in his skull today.

I have been involved in the medical industry for over thirty years. Radiation is real and serious. I have personally seen the West Coast die offs of fish and other marine life since Fukushima. Our background radiation skyshine + soilshine is 215 CPM. THIS WORKS OUT TO ABOUT 25 FULL RADS PER YEAR HERE, AND THE IMMEDIATE COAST IS DOUBLE THAT. This is 530% increase over what we had before Fukushima. Yes, this is with a calibrated Ludlum meter. The salmon have tumors and can’t be sold or eaten their flesh is yellow and not pinkish-red. They could not even sell Copper River Salmon for $2.63 per pound this year because the meat was tumored and hot from radiation, not to mention off-color. This Salmon normally goes for close to $15.00 per pound. My local Fish generally count 85 to 125 CPM, Whereas before Fukushima they might have been maybe 10 CPM at worst. Yes this brand new radiation is Fukushima Cesium  134 and 137 and Strontium 90. My meter is isotope specific.

The other fish are dying the starfish and seals are sick and dying, as the whales and squid and it is some mysterious disease – YEAH BULL-Malarky. WHAT IS THERE ABOUT “IT IS THE RADIATION THAT PEOPLE DO NOT WANT TO UNDERSTAND” Besides all the radioactive trash that has washed on shore onto the West Coast.

PEOPLE ON THE WEST COAST ALL HAVE CHRONIC COUGHS SINCE FUKUSHIMA, MYSELF INCLUDED. OH AND LET US NOT FORGET THE STILL BORN INCREASE AND BIRTH DEFECT INCREASE AND CANCER INCREASE TO THE 3 MOST WESTERN STATES. YES, ALL OF THESE ITEMS ARE ON MAINSTREAM TV OVER HERE.

This is just scare-mongering BS, unsupported by anything in the scientific literature. Give me a legitimate media or scientific source or stop making wild claims. And turn off your caps lock.

Thanks for the post Westcoast! Your information is right on the money and this is exactly why I have been posting about the benefits of Clinoptilolite zeolite in order to safely remove both radiation and heavy metals from the body! This mentally ill nutcase Mike O’Brien has some kind of sick attraction to me because he follows my posts all over the internet spewing lies while trying to discredit me and my valid information about zeolite just because he knows that I am a part of this industry! This just rips him up even though I never ask anyone to purchase from me! When he asked me of proof of how zeolite works and what kind of radiation and heavy metals zeolite is known to remove I sent him a third party independent test with lab report results that clearly shows what zeolite is capable of removing which includes heavy metals and radiation! The first thing he did was to discount the report as no good as if it didn’t exist! I posted this report twice! Then he went onto push this FDA poison Prussian Blue artist dye product that is loaded with levels of cyanide! When you asked him how it works to remove radiation he couldn’t answer you and then went on to act like a child telling you something about wearing a foil hat.This shows the two of us and all the other readers in these articles that Mike O’Brien could care less about other peoples health concerns or their very lives! For Mike its all about his own vanity in his failing quest to look like he knows what he’s talking about. This guy has absolutely no good in him whatsoever! He would rather lead people to poison themselves then to admit that he is wrong about anything period! Talk about toxic he should have a skull and crossbones tattooed with Prussian Blue Dye on his forehead so people can see him coming!

No you didn’t you, quoted from an unknown source and even then I showed that the paper was a load of BS, it could even get simple math right.

He asked me how it worked and then in the same post he explained how it work, so there was nothing for me to answer. Oh and it doesn’t remove radiation, so even if he had asked me that there is no answer.

The irony and projection going on here is impressive, eh? I am just going to start deleting his posts, but he is clearly unhinged.

Hey doc, repeating BS conspiracy theory jokes won’t make them true.

Yet this retort to me was at 7:32 PM. So your claim of the earlier one being your LAST is a lie. Just what I would expect from a aluminum hat wearing conspiracy buffoon.

The discussion on irradiated food stock….radiation isn’t really a substance its an energy force analogous to electricity that here now then gone. You can’t eat radiation, but a person can suffer from over exposure, such as cancer treatments. The natural world is full of radiation that we live with and most think this is of no danger. Were evaluating irradiating preservation of foods that have a history of causing death as these foods naturally develop toxicity, per the organic process. No loss in food value can be determined (yet), but the process greatly improves safety and self life. Thyroid protection per iodine is the only recommended over exposure to radiation supplement I know of.

The health community recommends occasionally and especially if one thinks or has been tested high on heavy metals to eat more cilantro. This vegetable is famous for pulling heavy metals from fat stores. Careful though, because some have eaten large quantities of salad for this purpose and became sick. Appears, the metals lodged in fat is mostly harmless and when dislodged will easily be taken up again by digestive system. This will happen quicker and in bigger quantities than original pollution exposure and may be placed by body in more harmful positions. For this reason they recommend eating algae or Chlorella Powder with cilantro as a tag team. Chlorella famous for binding up heavy metals within digestion. Their are other foods and supplements capable of this but these two the most common, capable, and not expensive.

And sorry but a report that can’t even get basic math correct is not well written. Also being ‘well written’ has nothing to do with science or proof. 20 participants is no where near enough to get decent results, even if the study was done by competent researchers.

Kind of interesting that both you and your buddy ended posts with Yiddish. Might cause some people to believe you were the same person.

Register or log in now to save your comments and get priority moderation!

Russ Finley is an avid amateur naturalist. He is also an aerospace engineer with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering, an Associate’s in Aviation Technology, airframe and power plant mechanic’s licenses, and pilot’s license, all from Purdue University.

For those who want an inside edge in the energy sector.

Written by veteran energy analysts and insiders with a track record of accurately predicting trends.

100% FREE!
