
According to many policymakers, pundits, and others, Maine’s labor market faces twin structural problems.  First there is the skills gap , where the skills demanded by firms cannot be supplied by the current work force.  While both jobs and workers are available, the problem is the workers do not have the requisite skills for those jobs.  Second there is the demographics issue, where there is simply a shortage of workers to fill the jobs available.  These two structural issues are similar in nature (demand for labor exceeds supply), and they both have been largely accepted as axiomatic in the state.

The problem with the presentation and acceptance of these twin structural arguments is that there lacks sufficient data and evidence to support them.  In fact, the data and evidence suggests that the problems in the Maine labor market are largely cyclical in nature, stemming from a weak recovery following a collapse in consumer demand.  For purposes of this post I am going to focus on the labor shortage argument (and will come back to the skills gap argument in a later post), specifically to address the fact that there are conflicting reports about the impact Maine’s shifting demographics will have on the labor force, why focus on structural issues in the labor market ignores the ongoing cyclical issues, and why ignoring those cyclical problems will both rob the state of an opportunity to boost its labor force while also exacerbating the structural problems down the road.

“So over the next two decades, as the baby-boom generation leaves the work force and retires, the number of available workers contributing to the Maine economy will decline,” said Colgan, who has studied Maine’s demographic data for more than 30 years.

For individuals, the labor shortage will be good news because employers will be forced to increase wages, he said. For companies, however, higher labor costs will make it harder for them to compete with firms outside the state and grow.

The only solution is to bring more people to Maine, he said.

There has been a lot of discussion among politicians lately about Maine’s “skills gap,” the perceived mismatch between the skills needed by employers and the skills being taught in schools and colleges.

But just revamping the skills of the current population is not enough, said state economist Amanda Rector.

Likewise, the demographics issue has been termed as a “ crisis “, something that requires “ radical rethinking ” and that could lead the state to “ financial ruin “, and so forth by the media and others.

So, does Maine have a labor shortage, or a job shortage, or both? And if it’s a labor shortage, is it here now, if not when will it hit, etc.?  In short, there’s no reason to believe that Maine is facing a labor shortage at the present, nor is there strong evidence that a labor shortage is to occur in the near future.

These two data point suggest that Maine is not currently facing a labor shortage.

entirely and decline by 20,000 by 2020.

So, based on current trends, Maine’s labor force will shrink by some 20,000 workers.  Interestingly though, a report issued by the Maine Department of Labor in May, 2013 conflicts with the MCC/MDF report.  In the MDOL report, similarly based on current population and participation trends, the state’s labor force is expected to grow by 18,800 workers.  What makes the MDOL reports so interesting is that the MCC/MDF report assumes constant labor force participation rates (“LFPR”) and projects a declining labor force, whereas the MDOL assumes a declining LFPR (to 63.2% in 2020, down from 64.3% in 2010, and which currently stands at 65.5%) and projects a growing labor force.

The actual impact of Maine’s shifting demographics on the labor force are not clear from the above two reports; neither in terms of what the impact will be on the labor force, and in turn what that will do to Maine’s economy.

In other words, if we push the LFPR for the younger age cohorts back to pre-recession levels, we will offset the declines in the labor force projected by the MCC/MDF report. This piece from the MDOL report also highlights two important things.  First, the decline in labor force metrics for the prime age working cohort is a sign that Maine’s labor market weakness is still cyclical in nature.  Second, the labor market issues are not structural.  Whereas the older (55+) and younger (16 – 24) age cohorts are often structurally unemployed (retirement for the former, school for the latter**), the 25 – 54 age cohort, known as the prime age workers, are typically involuntarily unemployed (unemployed because of downturns in the economy, lack of job openings, etc.).

Of course, typically is not always, so there are instances of people in the 25 – 54 cohort being structurally unemployed, but LFPR and employment/population rates (“EPR”) are higher for this group than the other two.  Because of that, this cohort is a good (though not perfect) barometer for cyclical problems in a labor market.  In Maine, the labor market metrics for the 25 – 54 year old cohort suggests that the soft labor market is still cyclical in nature.

While the MDOL report suggests the state can boost the labor force by some 29,000 workers by increasing participation, pushing the EPR for the 25 – 54 age cohort 3 percentage points from its current level (which would bring the EPR to a level at the bottom end of the annual EPRs for the 2000 – 2007 period), the state would gain roughly 16,000 workers.

For nothing converts cyclical unemployment into structural unemployment more certainly than prolonged unemployment.

Maine’s population and labor force are getting older, and that will have implications for the state in the future.  Exactly when that will take place and what those implications will are not clear.  What is clear is that one-half of the argument that Maine’s labor market and economic problems are somehow structurally related does not hold up to scrutiny.  Currently, there is no labor shortage, and even those who argue that Maine’s demographics will cause a labor shortage down the road  admit that the state cannot currently absorb a mass in-migration of workers  because job creation remains tepid. There is still slack in the labor market, wages and hours remain stagnant, and long-term unemployment persists.  It’s difficult to fathom how policymakers expect to draw workers from out-of-state when the current labor market conditions are so bleak.  This is not, in fact, a chicken or egg conundrum ; the excess labor supply clearly indicates a need for job growth for the current labor force.

*  Yes, we can find industries with rising wages, but that is result is too narrow to comport with the phenomena of an economy wide labor shortage.  If that were the case, then we would see enough increases in median wages across various industries to pull up the overall wage.

 Moreover, the slight bump in wages during the recession is not likely an indication of a labor shortage or other structural issue.  Wages are likely to, at least, remain stagnant if not rise during a recession.   Why exactly this occurs is up for debate .

**  Increases in unemployment or declines in LFPR due to schooling are not said to be cyclically related, but this is not entirely true.  For instance, enrollment rates rise when there are economic downturns (see here , here , and here ).  Likewise, disability claims (too considered a structural problem in a labor market rather than cyclical) have a cyclical component to them (see here and here ).

***  While I intend to leave the skills gap argument for a later post, I have to make note of the fact that the rise in the duration of unemployment (as well as other labor market metrics– here  and  here ) coincides with the economic downturn in 2008.  Further, the rise in the duration of unemployment occurred quite rapidly rather than rise gradually over time, as would be expected if the unemployment were structural.  As economist Edward Lazear wrote in 2012 , “[t]he structure of a modern economy does not change that quickly.”  In other words, Maine did not get old, become unskilled, become uneducated, and so forth in the period from 2007 to 2009.

John graduated from the University of Southern Maine with a degree in Political Science, and from the University of Maine School of Law.  He has worked in both the public and private sectors, and currently, works with a small business services company in the Mid-Coast area.

John graduated from the University of Southern Maine with a degree in Political Science, and from the University of Maine School of Law.  He has worked in both the public and private sectors, and currently, works with a small business services company in the Mid-Coast area.

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
