
Fairground, park funding at issue.

Boone County voters might be asked to decide in August whether to approve a six-year, eighth-cent sales tax to support parks throughout the county and to fund operation of the Central Missouri Events Center.

The Boone County Commission will have a first reading of the sales tax proposal at its 1:30 p.m. meeting on Thursday. A second reading and final approval could come May 27 as a preferred option for funding operations and improvements at the events center, which is also the site of the Boone County Fairgrounds.

Boone County voters might be asked to decide in August whether to approve a six-year, eighth-cent sales tax to support parks throughout the county and to fund operation of the Central Missouri Events Center.

The Boone County Commission will have a first reading of the sales tax proposal at its 1:30 p.m. meeting on Thursday. A second reading and final approval could come May 27 as a preferred option for funding operations and improvements at the events center, which is also the site of the Boone County Fairgrounds.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Northern District Commissioner Janet Thompson said a portion of the tax would also go toward a contract — probably with the Columbia Parks and Recreation Department — for developing and managing the recreational portions of the 134-acre events center. The tax would generate between $2 million and $3 million annually, she said.

A portion of the tax also would be available as a grant pool for Boone County communities with proposals for improving or developing their parks. The county does not have a parks department and has been paying for management of the events center from general revenue.

"'Sales tax' is not something that trips lightly from anybody's lips," Thompson said this morning. "But it's a question of asking the voters if they think it's important" and whether they believe the fairground property is "an asset for Boone County that can be developed as a premier park."

A special task force last fall concluded that the events center needed an aggressive marketing plan and a consistent revenue source to fund operations.

The county already jointly manages with the city's Parks and Recreation Department an adjoining 80-acre tract with ball fields. Thompson said discussions have already taken place about contracting with the city to manage and develop other recreational aspects of the fairground property, but management of the commercial part of the events center still would be provided by a separate entity.

Parks and Recreation Department Director Mike Griggs said the city has been asked to take over management of the county's portion of the MKT Trail from Columbia to McBaine and a county park in the El Chaparral area.

"We just can't absorb that without any funding," Griggs said. "There's got to be a funding source."

Columbia Parks and Recreation already has a sales tax that will be back on the ballot in 2015 for renewal.

"I think that's our biggest concern," he said. "How does it impact our parks sales tax?"

Presiding Commissioner Dan Atwill said the need for "some stream of income" is not a new concept, adding, "There's never a good time to present a new tax."

"This is a true issue to go before the voters, and we will either be in a position after the election to create something out there that residents will be proud of, or it will simply have to wait until a different time," he said. "My vote will be to stop using general revenue to fund it and keep it open."

County voters approved a quarter-cent sales tax in November 2012 to fund youth mental health services, and a three-eighths-cent sales tax for a county-run 911/emergency management service won voter approval in April 2013.

The Missouri General Assembly will seek voter approval in November of a three-quarter-cent sales tax for the state's transportation system.

This article was published in the Monday, May 19, 2014 edition of the Columbia Daily Tribune with the headline "County might put sales tax on the ballot; Fairground, park funding at issue."

You have viewed your 10 free stories.  You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and enjoy unlimited access to local news, sports, photos and thoughtful analysis to help make sense of it all. If you need help, please contact our customer service office at 573-815-1600.

Tirebiter posted at 2:52 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I suspect this will be a tough hill to climb.  The commission will have to step up and make the case forcefully and convincingly.

Paul Cushing posted at 2:56 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Based on this request, it sure seems like we weren't able to break even at the fairgrounds. I am not certain that continuing support of that entity is in the best interest of all of Boone County. I know it benefits certain businesses in the area but if we aren't careful, we will be paying 10% sales tax after state, county and city are done taking on their slices.

That said, I would much rather the county focus on roads and bridges in the near term rather than parks. I would support an additional sales tax from the county if it went to paving. Just my opinion as a resident of the county.

NoExit posted at 3:09 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I think I will support this but need to learn more. I will not vote for the state transportation tax as I feel it cuts into the willingness and ability to support local propositions like this.

Don't Believe Liberal Media posted at 3:35 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Paul, not just a 10% sales tax, but also some of the highest school taxes in the state.

I will not support any additional taxes.

rhansing posted at 3:59 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

And merchants do not understand why we do all our shopping on the itnernet.

timkridel posted at 4:03 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Yup. Add up your 2013 state income, federal income and payroll, and property taxes, and then see what percentage of your income that was. Sales taxes are in addition to that.

rgreencolm posted at 4:18 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Good idea however a contract with Parks and Recreation to manage and develop the complete area is the best idea and maybe necessary for the tax to pass.  Think a one quarter, with half going to development and half for operations is the way to go.  Development part could have a five year sunset.

cielocamino3 posted at 7:09 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Igetit posted at 7:59 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Thats your party. NO. The CMEC has real potential and deserves the community support. The way to make this work is to generate year round revenue, and the way to do that is to encourage office/ residential/retail space at the fairground property. Did I not see a proposal to move some State offices there? A firm financial footing is all thats needed here.

Another solution might be to create a taxing authority much like the library or fire district.

cielocamino3 posted at 9:13 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

John Schultz posted at 2:24 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Another solution would be to sell the land to someone willing to put in the private money necessary to make the fairgrounds a viable proposition.

Don't Believe Liberal Media posted at 3:52 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

The fairgrounds was privately owned, and when the owners could not make a profit on running it, the county bailed them out by purchasing the property.

LeeM1023 posted at 6:00 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

No, no, and no.  No more taxes.  The job of elected officials is to establish priorities and figure out how to pay for them within available resources.  Continually raising taxes on the citizens should not be the option that is returned to over and over again.

If the fairgrounds, in its remote and unattractive location, is not economically vialbe, let it go.  We're really well beyond the era of the "county fair", people.  I personally do not want my money spent on this losing proposition.

I have said it before and stand by it:  Any elected official in this stagnant economy who proposes "more taxes because we want this and this and this and this" is not worthy of they office he or she holds, and should be voted out at the earliest opportunity.

Since it isn't clear enough, try this:  NO MORE TAXES.

1 Our policy regarding reader comments Be courteous. Don't post comments that are abusive, defamatory, illegal, libelous or obscene. It is possible to debate without engaging in personal attacks. We cannot review every comment, but we reserve the right to remove or delete comments at any time. For more information, read our commenting guidelines or FAQ's regarding comments.
