
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I teach English and I write, mostly about horse racing, for the Blood-Horse, New York Breeder, the Saratogian, Hello Race Fans!, Mid-Atlantic Thoroughbred, The Racing Biz, and the Brooklyn Heights Blog. My work has also appeared in the Daily Racing Form, Thoroughbred Times, the New York Daily News, and BelmontStakes.com.  A former and erstwhile resident of Saratoga Springs, New York, I’ve lived in Brooklyn for more than a decade, and when I’m not teaching or writing, I’m watching the Rangers at the Garden, playing Scrabble, or rescuing cats.

California Chrome will run in the Belmont Stakes, and he will wear the nasal strips that caused such a furor over the last 36 hours.

Acting with unusual celerity in an industry in which change is seldom enacted easily, the New York State Gaming Commission, which regulates Thoroughbred racing in the state, issued a release announcing that the stewards at Belmont Park had unanimously approved a request by the horse’s trainer Art Sherman to use the nasal strips on his horse. California Chrome wore the strips in winning both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness, but until today, they were not permitted for use in New York State.

Before scratching his horse from the 2012 Belmont because of injury, trainer Doug O’Neill was not granted permission to use the strips on I’ll Have Another, who was also running to win the first Triple Crown since 1978. At the time, the stewards said that their concern about the strips was that they were unregulated .

Three stewards are charged with receiving and granting requests regarding the equipment horses can wear at the tracks of the New York Racing Association. One steward represents NYRA, one The Jockey Club, and one the Gaming Commission.

The decision means that all horses running at the three NYRA tracks (Belmont Park, Aqueduct Racetrack, and Saratoga Race Course) and at Finger Lakes may wear the strips.

Jennie Rees of the Louisville Courier-Journal reported yesterday that Sherman suggested that one of California Chrome’s owners might consider not running in the Belmont Stakes if the strips were not permitted.

THANK YOU NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION! The nasal strips are merely a piece of equipment like leg bandages, blinkers, and shadow rolls. Those things aren’t regulated, so it stands to reason the nasal strips shouldn’t be either. Now we will find out if we DO have a Triple Crown winner on June 7 or not. He has a shot!

Much ado about nothing, IMO. The only benefit I’ve seen is that the strips MAY help prevent the horse from bleeding. Which would seem to be a good thing, so maybe they should be required equipment and then the industry can wean itself off its dependence on Lasix.
