
Please upgrade your browser for the best Refinery29 experience. Read more .

Now we're email buddies!

You have chosen to receive our #NAMED_LISTS# newsletters at #EMAIL_ADDRESS#. You will receive an e-mail shortly confirming your subscription. So excited to have you!

xoxo,

Photo: Courtesy of Lolë Women.

This could be a great week to get outside to do some yoga. And then reward yourself with a sweet treat, of course! Perhaps a Nutella Cronut, or a fish taco, or a macaron ice-cream sandwich. If there weren't so many other great things to do in NYC, we would be tempted to simply eat all day every day. Read on to find out how we'll be filling the time in between meals over the next coming days.

Have a Cronut hole. With Nutella. Now!

Nutella is now 50 years old. You know what that means...hazelnut spread to the face in the form of delectable Cronut holes make by none other than chef Dominique Ansel. Obviously! Stop by today for some complimentary samples to celebrate the occasion.

When: Today, Monday, May 19, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Where: Broadway Pedestrian Plaza, at the intersection of Broadway and Fifth avenues, between 23rd and 24th streets.

Wear white.

Lolë invites New York City to wear white and Zen out today with a series of yoga flash mobs in anticipation of the sold-out WHITE Yoga Tour , which comes to MoMA this Thursday. From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., Lolë will be traveling around the city, leading yoga sessions in almost all of NYC's parks.

When: Today, Monday, May 19, 11 a.m to 1p.m.

Try a new restaurant. Or 28.

Mad. Sq. Eats is back with almost 30 vendors offering tasty treats, from spicy tuna tacos to stuffed canolis. Some of our favorites include L & W Oyster Co. 's shrimp burgers and Mexicue margaritas. Avoid the sure-to-be-crowded seating area and tote your dinner across the street to Madison Square Park to enjoy your grub in peace.

When: Through Friday, May 30, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.

Where: General Worth Square, between Broadway and Fifth Avenue, at 25th Street.

Experience fire and urine as art.

Yes, you read that right. The current exhibition at Skarstedt Gallery features abstract paintings by Yves Klein and Andy Warhol, who worked with fire and urine respectively. Intriguing? To say the least!

When: Through Saturday, June 21.

Where: Skarstedt Gallery , 550 West 21st Street (at Eleventh Avenue); 212-994-5200.

Decorate your apartment.

Works MFG, a Greenpoint-based design studio run by husband-and-wife duo Aleksey and Juliet Kravchuk is opening its first retail outpost at Wythe Hotel. The IRL opening coincides with the launch of its online boutique . Stools, sconces, and lamps? Check, check, and check.

When: Through Sunday, June 22.

Where: Wythe Hotel , 80 Wythe Avenue (at North Eleventh Street), Brooklyn; 718-460-8000 .

Stock up your spring wardrobe.

Colorblocked dresses, leather sandals, and printed pants will all be up to 70% off at this season's Tibi sample sale. Just what you need to get you through that midweek hump.

When: Tuesday, May 20, noon to 8 p.m.; Wednesday, May 21, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Thursday, May 22, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Where: 57 Greene Street (between Broome and Spring streets).

Fling with spring dresses, shoes, and more at Bergdorf Goodman.

Shop your favorite contemporary designers — Alexander Wang, rag & bone, Theory, and more — up to 40% off starting this Wednesday. There will be complimentary makeovers and gifts with purchases as long as supplies last, so you definitely want to pop by sooner rather than later.

When: Starting Wednesday, May 21.

Where: Bergdorf Goodman 5F, 754 Fifth Avenue (at 58th Street); 800-588-1855.

Take a moment to cool off.

Macarons + ice cream = the perfect way to kick off summer. You won't be able to get enough of the combo. Good thing they're here all summer.

When: Wednesday, May 21 through end of August.
