
This is a sampling from Bay Area News Group's Political Blotter blog. Read more and post comments at www.ibabuzz.com/politics .

State Senate Majority Leader Ellen Corbett, D-San Leandro, has a new mailer in the field for her bid to unseat Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Dublin, taking aim at the freshman congressman's experience and bona fides.

The mailer contrast "Eric Swalwell -- not ready for Congress" -- with less than one Dublin City Council term before his 2012 election to the House, his pro-development votes on that council, the Republican votes he took in his 2012 election, and his lowest ranking among Bay Area liberals from the National Journal -- to "Ellen Corbett -- 2 decades of leadership on progressive Democratic issues," from her time as a San Leandro councilwoman and mayor to three terms in the Assembly and two in the state Senate.

Corbett appears to be off the mark in concluding that "of the 10 Democrats representing the Bay Area, Swalwell has, by far, the worst record on progressive issues." According to the National Journal's 2013 vote rankings, both Jerry McNerney, D-Stockton, and Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, came in less liberal/more conservative than Swalwell.

Also, if some of these attacks on Swalwell sound familiar, it's because Pete Stark attacked his relative inexperience, his GOP support and his Dublin City Council votes in 2012.

And Corbett's mailer says "Swalwell is supported by the Washington, D.C. Democratic Party leadership" while Corbett "is endorsed by our local Democratic Clubs, representing grass roots, progressive activists here in our community." True, though Swalwell won the California Democratic Party's endorsement as well as those of the Tri-Valley Democratic Club and the Contra Costa Young Democrats -- not as many local groups as Corbett lists on her mailer, but grass roots nonetheless.

Meanwhile, Swalwell is holding a fundraiser Wednesday night in San Francisco, headlined by Rep. Joseph Kennedy III, D-Mass., with tickets ranging from $50 to $1,000.

UPDATE @ 11:39 A.M.: Corbett is holding a campaign meet-and-greet this Saturday evening, May 17, at the Hayward home of former Alameda County Supervisor Gail Steele; it's billed as an "important conversation about the future of our nation." And Corbett also is flexing the muscle of her labor-union support, inviting backers to join her for phone banking on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons/evenings at the Alameda County Labor Council office in Oakland and on Wednesday and Thursday evenings from the United Food and Commercial Workers hall in Hayward.

UPDATE @ 10:35 P.M.: Corbett takes issue with my analysis.

"McNerney is not a Bay Area representative. His district is based in Stockton and Lodi," she wrote to me in an email this evening. That's true, but his 9th Congressional District still includes almost 86,000 registered voters in Contra Costa County, so I usually include him among Bay Area members; clearly she does not.

Corbett also disputed my noting that Swalwell isn't the most conservative member of the Bay Area delegation. In her email, she provided ratings not only from the National Journal but also from the American Civil Liberties Union, Progressive Punch and Peace Action West which -- when averaged together -- indicate that he is. "Swalwell is clearly the least progressive member of the Bay Area Congressional caucus," she wrote.

This may be true, but her mailer cited only the National Journal as a source; by that standard, Swalwell is rated 86th most liberal in the House, Zoe Lofgren is ranked 99th and McNerney is ranked 171st.
