
Asking a celebrity to prom is not that uncommon these days, but one Connecticut schoolgirl had an unusual dream prom date: Vice President Joe Biden . Talia Maselli, a senior at Newington High School in Newington, Connecticut, sent Biden a handwritten invitation last fall, asking if he would be willing to escort her to prom.

"I am inviting you so far in advance because I'm sure many 17-year-old girls send you prom invitations, and I had to beat them to it," Maselli said in her letter. "I could only tolerate a high school dance if I was to be escorted by the most delightful man in America."

Maselli said she never expected to actually hear back from the vice president, but the morning before the prom received a surprise delivery: a corsage and a note from Biden, inviting her to come visit the White House. Biden's schedule did not permit him to actually attend the prom.

"I am flattered, but my schedule will not permit me to be in Connecticut on Friday evening," the vice president said in the note. "But I hope you will accept this corsage and enjoy your prom as much as I did mine."

Unfortunately, Maselli did not end up actually attending her prom and plans on pressing the flowers in a book. She admits she is far more excited about visiting Washington, D.C. than she was about prom.

While Masselli's dream prom date might be considered pretty unorthodox by ordinary standards, you cannot deny that Biden was a class act in this situation.

Christine Rousselle is a web editor with Townhall.com. Follow her on Twitter at @crousselle .

Townhall is packed with breaking news headlines, political news, and conservative opinion with Townhall columnists including Ann Coulter, Michelle Malkin, Michael Barone, Star Parker, Dennis Prager, Thomas Sowell, and many more of your favorite conservatives.                     Political cartoons full of satire and political humor from editorial cartoonists including Michael Ramirez, Glenn McCoy, and Henry Payne.

Townhall.com also features the latest news videos and pictures on the latest political hot topics including health care reform, the economy, immigration, government tax, President Obama, Sarah Palin, Mitt Romney, Herman Cain, Ron Paul, Iraq, immigration, politics, gay marriage laws, and many more big news issues.

Townhall Magazine is our monthly print magazine that offers more exclusive investigative journalism, in-depth reporting, analysis, interviews with the heavy hitters and powerful exposés.
