
Log Lane Village residents soon may wake up and find their yards looking quite pink.

But blooming flowers would not be behind the spread of the bright color.

Instead, it may be due to hundreds of plastic pink flamingos filling their yards.

Kids At Their Best plans to hold a flamingo flocking fundraiser in coming weeks and months in Log Lane, as well as all over Morgan County, according to Jodi Walker, executive director/founder of the Wiggins nonprofit.

"We're going to put the fun back in fundraising," she told the board.

The way it works is anyone can make a $25 donation to have a flock of flamingos placed in someone's yard by volunteers from the group, Walker said. That person then is asked to make a donation to have the group remove the pink birds.

But those wanting to avoid having someone flock them could purchase "flocking insurance" for $10, Walker said.

There also is a $15 "mail-a-flock" option, she said, where people can send a flock of flamingos to somewhere outside Morgan County or Colorado.

Walker said that the $25 cost of flocking a yard is about the same as the per-child cost for  Kids at Their Best to run the summer meals program.

Log Lane Town Park again will play host to one of the five Morgan County sites for free lunches and activities for kids over the summer.

Kids At Their Best was formed in 2005 in Wiggins and has evolved into a county-wide organization. One of its big focuses is the summer meals and activities program.

This program provides no-cost lunches  and activities for kids who otherwise may not have enough food without tlunches they get at school, Walker said. Almost 5,000 kids in Morgan County qualify for those school lunches.

She said that the community coming together can help to fix the summer childhood hunger problem, and she asked the trustees to spread the word about the local summer meals program.

The money for the food initially comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which then goes to the state, then the Food Bank of the Rockies and then Kids At Their Best, Walker explained.

This summer, planned activities include: weekly visits from representatives of places like the Denver Museum of Nature & Science, Colorado Division of Wildlife, area fire departments, Morgan County REA, Operation Life Saver and more; art projects and guest artist visits; game days; water day; community service projects; and more, according to Walker.

The board also heard a concern from Fort Morgan Realtor Dalrie Skraback, of Zwetzig Realty, about the town's rule about how old trailers/mobile homes can be to be allowed to move into Log Lane.

Skraback explained that her clients, Marie Pletintschuk and Dave Cool, had a 2002 trailer in good condition that they wanted to move to a vacant lot in Log Lane and live in the town.

But because the trailer is more than 10 years old, she wanted to know how to help her clients through the variance process.

Skraback told the board that several other people were facing the same issue.

She pointed out that the board had indicated they wanted the town to grow and the old, abandoned trailers in Log Lane to be replaced with newer ones where people would live.

Mayor Ed Parker and Town Attorney Carmen Beery walked Skraback, Pletintschuk and Cool through the process they would need to go through to apply for a variance, including getting the trailer in question inspected and certified as meeting the town's standards other than age.

Once proof of that certification was provided to the town, the board said that a special meeting could be held to consider a variance for the couple.

The board also asked that a variance process explanation be put together to give to real estate agents, like Skraback, so that the they would know what to tell their clients in the future.

A Log Lane resident also spoke about her concerns with "black stuff" in the  water from the town that came out of her pipes.

She said that Public Works Director Bert Kammerzell "has been wonderful" with helping her deal with this issue, but she was getting tired of it recurring and having to seek his help. Contractors had advised her it was the town's responsibility to fix this, so she was asking the board what could be done.

"It's a problem that the whole town has," Trustee Michael Carlson said.

But it's an issue with the old water lines and how they were set up a long time ago, he said. The only way to fix it is to replace the water lines.

The board plans to seek grants to be able to replace parts or all of the water delivery system, he said, as it likely is at least a $250,000 project, according to a recent presentation from engineers.

In the meantime, the board would have Kammerzell continue to help residents as needed.
