
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

GULF SHORES, Alabama – The City of Gulf Shores will host its fifth annual S'mores on the Shore featuring campfires and live music, beginning at 5:30 p.m. May 22 at the west end of the Gulf Shores Public Beach.

Of course, the ooey goodness that is created when placing a roasted marshmallow and piece of chocolate between two graham crackers, will be there for all to roast and enjoy.

Welcoming families of all ages, the event began in 2010 as an idea to have a fun event for the children in the area, City of Gulf Shores program and special events supervisor Lesley Dethloss said.

"Our Program and Special Events Department wanted to do some fun things for kids on the beautiful beaches," Dethloss said. "We wanted to do something free and for children."

As a result, the idea of S'mores on the Shore was created.

"The locals were looking for something fun for their kids to do," Dethloss said. "It hit home with the local community. I mean, how often do you get to have s'mores on the beach?"

What began with a good turnout of 200 people at its first event, the S'mores on the Shore has recently seen much higher numbers of people attending.

"We can have up to 500 people over the course of the time," Dethloss said of recent years.

She added that families – not just children – enjoy the event.

 "Each year S'mores on the Shore seems to grow in popularity," Dethloff said. "When you combine our beautiful beaches, live music, campfire s'mores, it really does make for an incredible night."

S'mores on the Shore will feature music from a live DJ, campfires and all of the makings for s'mores.

Families planning to attend are encouraged to bring their blankets, chairs, friends and family to join the fun and relax on Gulf Shores' beautiful, sugar-white beaches.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
