
Bea Steyer wanted to look her best, so she bought a new dress for a special event May 6 at the Arbor Oaks of Andover senior home.

“This is my first prom and I’m 94 (years old). “I said, ‘Make me beautiful tonight. I’m going to enjoy every bit of it,’” Steyer said as she watched her friends dance with Andover High School juniors and seniors.

About 25 students from the Andover High School National Honor Society danced, played casino and visited with 85 senior citizens for an Arbor Oaks prom that also included people from an Andover YMCA senior citizen program.

“Some didn’t get an opportunity to enjoy their own prom, so it’s cool for them to say they now had their own prom,” said Kalleigh Meester, a senior at Andover High School and the National Honor Society member who organized this event.

For about two weeks before the prom even happened, Meester said approximately 40 students helped with preparations. This was done in the midst of getting ready for their own prom, which was April 26. One of the biggest tasks was making paper corsages, Meester said.

Robert Miller met his future wife Theresa Miller at a barn dance in South Dakota, but they also never had a prom to go to. They will be celebrating their 55th anniversary May 18. Theresa said “it’s wonderful” that these high school students thought of the idea to hold a prom for them.

Meester reached out to Arbor Oaks management not long after the senior home opened last fall, just north of Oak View Middle School and a short distance from Andover High School because she was looking for another way for the Andover High School National Honor Society to get involved in the community.

Kelsey Schultz, executive director of Arbor Oaks, and Meester brainstormed and came up with the prom idea.

Michelle Land, director of marketing for Arbor Oaks, was in charge of the music selection, which ranged from the 1939 classic “In the Mood” by the Glenn Miller Band to “Celebration” by Kool and the Gang, released in 1980.

This prom was no different than many other dances. There was a small group of people that mostly stood and talked on the dance floor. Almost all the senior citizens were sitting down. Very quickly, the students asked the senior citizens to dance and the dance floor quickly filled up. One lady encouraged a high school senior boy to try some swing dance moves. The music volume increased and more people came from the dining and gaming room upstairs to stand in the hallway, waiting for their turn to dance.

At the end of the two-hour prom, Pat Winters and John Peyla were crowned queen and king.
