
A Grand Junction woman and her granddaughter have both been inducted into the Grand Junction Area Realtor Association. Toni Heiden, managing broker and owner of Heiden Homes Realty and Associates, welcomed Shandie Case and Shandie’s grandmother, Kathy Tomkins to the company during ceremonies at the GJARA induction luncheon in January.

Case, one of the youngest Realtors in Grand Junction at 22 years, brings solid experience and knowledge of the Mesa County market to Heiden Homes Realty. She has owned rental units for more than two years, beginning with a home she purchased with her fiancee while living in Denver. They later added two rental units in MesaCounty.

Keller Williams Colorado West Real Estate is participating in the annual community service effort known as Red Day. The local Keller Williams office has chosen to support Dream Catchers Therapy Center in Loma, Colorado.

“We feel it is so important to give back to the community that supports you so our company on a nation-wide level asks every office to participate in Red Day. It is held every May 8 and we are so excited to help Dream Catchers this year,” said Keith Everitt, team leader at Keller Williams Colorado West Real Estate.

Dream Catchers is based in Olathe Colorado, but has recently opened a facility in Loma and is need of donations as well as work done around the ranch. Dream Catchers offers therapeutic riding for people of all ages.

There will be approximately 20 Realtors out at the ranch on May 8 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. working on various duties around the ranch and helping to get the new facility off the ground. While other offices around the state are participating in other community service, when the local office heard of the need here they decided that this was important to help this program and touch the lives of the locals that support them.

Brian Versluis has returned to the real estate industry and joined the team at Bray Real Estate.

Amy Moore Martin has joined the Metro Brokers Grand Junction office.

Moore Martin has expanded her company, Colorado Asset Solutions, LLC., to now include a full service real estate brokerage firm, joining forces with Metro Brokers Grand Junction, Inc.

Drawn to the simpler life with less traffic and a lower crime rate, Shannon Castaneda has joined Heiden Homes Realty after moving to Grand Junction from the Sacramento, California area.

Shannon met her husband, Alex Castaneda, in Sacramento, where Shannon earned a B.A.

in humanities/religious studies at CSU Sacramento. Alex grew up in Grand Junction and the two moved to the Grand Valley in 2010 after deciding the California culture wasn’t a good fit for a family with young children. While living in Sacramento, it was common to hear gunshots and it wasn’t always safe for children to walk the streets. They finally decided to move to Grand Junction after their youngest son, Jude, spent time in the intensive care unit of a hospital when he was a baby. The Castanedas were ready for a less complicated, small town atmosphere.

Shannon is no stranger to the real estate business. She worked as a receptionist and office administrative assistant for four years while studying to earn her real estate license. Shannon’s primary interest as a Realtor is in helping people buy their first home.

RE/MAX Two Rivers Realty Inc.

Steve Fleming, Broker/Owner of RE/MAX Two Rivers Realty, Inc. recently attended a Realtors Land Institute (RLI) marketing session here in Grand Junction. RLI is a membership organization for real estate brokers who specialize in land properties. RLI members must meet rigorous knowledge and experience requirements and are recognized as the premier land specialists in North America. They meet regionally and nationally to market land properties including recreational properties, farms, ranches, and development property. The Grand Junction meeting was attended by 48 land specialists.

Keller Williams Colorado West Realty is proud to announce their newest agent Jennifer Cirka.

Jennifer Cirka of Grand Junction has acquired her real estate license and is joining Keller Williams Colorado West Realty, LLC. Her previous work experience includes 10 years with the United State Postal Service along with various other customer service and organizational positions. For the last 10 years, Cirka has been a stay-at-home mom and began homeschooling her daughter three years ago. She expects all of her various life skills to be of great advantage to her new career.

Originally from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Cirka moved to the Grand Valley in 1996 and quickly fell in love with the region. Cirka’s years of living here, along with her previous USPS employment, have made her very familiar with the Grand Junction area. She delights in the Grand Valley’s appeal, it’s amazing people, and all of Colorado’s wonderful opportunities and outdoor adventures.

Cirka lives with her husband, Ron, and their 11 year old daughter, Heather, in the Orchard Mesa area. The family also consists of two retired Greyhounds which you can regularly see walking the streets of downtown on the weekends. When not working, homeschooling, and crochet designing, she also enjoys camping, hiking, and baking. She also contributes regularly to local fundraiser events that benefit local non-profits and is actively involved with the Mesa County 4-H. Cirka is looking forward to her new career in Real Estate; she can’t wait to meet you and assist you in finding your dream property and/or investment.

© 2014 Grand Junction Media, Inc.
