
District 37B candidate Rene Desmarais speaks to the Mid-Shore League of Republican Women on Wednesday, May 14.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 5:00 am | Updated: 9:40 am, Tue May 20, 2014.

EASTON — Republican candidates Del. Addie Eckardt, R-37B-Dorchester, and Rene Desmarais spoke to the Mid-Shore League of Republican Women in Easton on Wednesday, May 14, about their views on issues facing Maryland and why they are running for office. Eckardt is running against incumbent Sen. Richard Colburn in the District 37 state Senate race, and Desmarais is running for delegate in District 37B.

Eckardt spoke first on her decision to leave the House and continue in government. “I like what I’m doing. I like being out and around people, trying to set policy, and going through the process of bill submission and analysis and putting amendments on the budget. I like seeing change that benefits the citizens, but I’m not crazy about the direction things are going. I will fight very hard to make sure the conservative values are represented in Annapolis,’” Eckardt said.

She has been a representative for the past 20 years, and took the decision to run for state Senate very seriously. “I thought ‘Well, since Jeannie is going to run for lieutenant governor then I need to stay put,” Eckardt said, referring to delegate Jeannie Haddaway, R-37B-Talbot. Haddaway is running with gubernatorial candidate David Craig. Eckardt’s mindset started to change, she said, after receiving encouragement to run for the Senate from both colleagues and supporters. “Whatever is God’s will, will be,” she said.

Retired from Eastern Shore Hospital Center, where she worked as a psychiatric nurse clinical specialist, Eckardt got her start in politics with the Dorchester County Republican Central Committee. “It’s really important to have an active central committee, an active central community that is not only working to build party registrations but also recruit and retain candidates and to keep the energy going,” she said.

She lost her first race for the delegate seat but ran again in 1994 and won. “Many times people will run and then hang it up if they don’t win. That is important to me because if (Republicans) ever want to take back this state, then we need to have a farm team,” Eckardt.

She cites her main strength in office as communicating with the public and then bringing that back to her office to make change. “I don’t put in (a) bill unless I think it is going to make a significant difference and if I think it is something that I think we have worked out to a place where it will move through,” Eckardt said, drawing a distinction between herself and other lawmakers in that respect.

Her biggest stance is on health care and the implementation of new government regulation. “You may say that the state is going down the road of Obamacare. The state maybe going down whichever road it’s going but there are people not getting services out there. With the changes that they are making there are some significant repercussions. I think I bring an understand of that from my work in health planning and nursing,” Eckardt said.

Desmarais also expressed concern about what is happening with health care in the state from the standpoint of individuals and businesses.

He felt compelled to run, he said, because he sees patients every day who suffer because of Maryland’s health care system.

Originally from New England, Desmarais first came to Maryland to attend Johns Hopkins University. He moved to Connecticut to continue his education, but returned to Maryland to finish his medical training. He was offered a job on the Eastern shore and jumped at the opportunity.

“We weren’t too crazy about New England and we tried to get away from the northeast liberal stuff, and thought we found it on the Eastern Shore, but Annapolis has had other things to say about that,” Desmarais said.

Desmarais has been in Wicomico County for more than 20 years at Peninsula Regional Medical Center, where he worked as a physician and cardiologist and eventually served as the president of medical staff for 12 years, leading 300 physicians.

“We have a lot of things that we can complain about and be upset about as Republicans,” Desmarais said, also speaking about the Common Core educational standards and the legalization of marijuana.

Follow me on Twitter: @Henley_stardem.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
