
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

GRAND RAPIDS, MI - The Grand Rapids school board is entering into a formal agreement with the city and Downtown Development Authority to include the Innovation Central High School campus in the downtown master plan being developed.

The school board voted unanimously Monday, May 19, to approve the so-called Memorandum of Understanding that commits the district to paying an amount not to exceed $72,290 for costs related to building/campus improvements. Board members say the move guarantees board input on the plan that will impact district families.

"As Grand Rapids continues to grow, we are seeing a resurgence of people moving downtown and wanting to live downtown," said school board member Jon O'Connor, chair of the Finance Committee that recommended approval. "I think it is important for us as both a school district and city to be able to offer high-quality educational options in the downtown area.

"I think that is going to be super important for the future growth of Grand Rapids."

O'Connor said he thinks Innovation Central, located at 421 Fountain St. NE, is going to be one of the biggest selling points of the city of Grand Rapids, moving forward.

The 11.2 acre campus houses the district's career-focused Centers of Innovation programs with GRPS partners such as Spectrum Health, as well as the Montessori program. The plan will identify and prioritize short, middle and long-term public investment for the next 15 years for downtown Grand Rapids and certain surrounding areas.

"As we think about downtown in the coming decades, the role of secondary education as an amenity and essential element of a healthy neighborhood is critical," said Kris Larson, president and CEO of Downtown Grand Rapids, Inc, who said the projections are for thousands more people to be living downtown over the next few decades.

"People choose to move for education and for jobs."

In December, he announced plans for the school to be included in the master plan. The DGRI oversees downtown marketing, operations and development activities. DGRI combines the operations of the DDA, the former Downtown Alliance and the Downtown Improvement District. In December, plans were first announced plans to add the high school to the master plan.

Wendy Falb, school board president and DDA member, said the district expects to raise the bulk of the $72,290 through outside contributions.

Larson said the high school is not in the DDA's boundaries, so the agency cannot legally spend funds on improving the site.

The district's proposed Museum School , planned for 2015-16, is within the boundaries and won't require an agreement. The school will be a partnership between the district, Grand Rapids Public Museum, the city and DGRI, Kendall College of Art and Design of Ferris State University, and Grand Valley State University.

This year, Innovation Central, formerly Central High School, was renamed and all four of the district's career-oriented high schools - Centers of Innovation - were moved to the site: Academy of Health Science & Technology; Academy of Design and Construction; Academy of Modern Engineering; and the Academy of Business, Leadership & Entrepreneurship. The campus also houses students from Creston High, which closed last spring.

The bulk of the school funding will go toward building and site plans and analysis, physical modifications and to improve traffic circulation near the school in the Heritage Hill community.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
