
Jim Dunkley and his dog Sugar take to the waters of the Choptank River in Greensboro Saturday, May 17, for Caroline’s annual Paddlefest on the Choptank.

Jason Vredeveld, of Michigan, takes to the waters of the Choptank River in Greensboro Saturday.

Clarence Childs and his son, Clarence Jr. join in the paddlefest.

Seth Whaley takes to the waters of the Choptank River.

Rachel Bounds takes to the waters of the Choptank River in Greensboro Saturday.

Clarence Childs, right, and his son Clarence Jr. stand together Saturday before the launch at Paddlefest on the Choptank in Greensboro.

Jim Dunkley and his dog Sugar take to the waters of the Choptank River in Greensboro Saturday, May 17, for Caroline's annual Paddlefest on the Choptank.

GREENSBORO — Friday’s heavy rain gave way to a crisp sun-filled spring day Saturday when more than 300 people hopped in boats and kayaks for a 7-mile trip down the Choptank River from Greensboro to Denton.

The trip began the fifth annual Paddlefest on the Choptank hosted by the Caroline County Chamber of Commerce. The community event featured visitors from Michigan, Colorado, Virginia and West Virginia. The number of kayakers has nearly doubled since 2012 when about 200 people participated in the event.

The course was a 7.7-mile paddle down the Choptank and ended at the Choptank River Yacht Club, where a free family festival went from noon to 5 p.m. There was live music by bluegrass band Flatland Drive and the Lockerman Middle School Jazz Band. There were hamburgers, hot dogs, hand-cut french fries, barbecued chicken, fried fish, Italian sausage, fresh kettle corn, peanuts, homemade ice cream and Italian ice.

Displays and activities included an Indian life exhibit, Scales and Tales wildlife exhibit, alpacas and a canoe ballet performance, along with the Paddle Poker awards presentation — all on the Choptank River.

At the morning launch in Greensboro, Caroline County Commissioner Wilbur Levengood welcomed visitors to the event. Levengood and his wife Sherry donated four bottles of Maryland wine as part of the event’s Poker Paddle.

“I’ve seen (license) plates from Virginia, Pennsylvania, and I’ve heard of Michigan and a few other places here today,” Levengood said. “That is a real exciting turnout to me to know we’ve got that many people reading about Caroline County.

Paddlers participated in the Poker Paddle with a chance to win one of several prizes, including a grand prize weekend getaway paddle package. The Paddle Poker featured 30 prizes donated by local businesses. The grand prize was weekend getaway at a bed and breakfast in Snow Hill. A first-place prize is an iPad Mini from Provident State Bank.

Follow Caroline/Dorchester Editor Dustin Holt on Twitter @Dustin_StarDem.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

Sign up for the weekly roundup of news, sports, opinion and community happenings in Kent County delivered to your inbox at 6 a.m. each Thursday.

Sign up for the weekly roundup of news, sports, opinion and community happenings in Queen Anne's County delivered to your inbox at 3:30 p.m. each Wednesday.

Sign up for this mailing list to recieve the day's headlines from around the Mid-Shore at 4 p.m. each day.
