
After 12 days of riding for free, SunRail passengers will now have to pay a one-way base fare of $2 to ride the train.

SunRail ran largely on time and with plenty of seats available Monday, despite one train demolishing a luxury car that was stalled on the tracks in Maitland .

No one was seriously hurt in the second accident in as many weeks for SunRail, although the 28-year-old driver was transported to Orlando Regional Medical Center, Maitland police said.

The driver, whose name was not released, may have been hit by debris after fleeing the black Infiniti just before it was struck about 2:15 p.m. by the 145-ton locomotive pulling three passenger cars. She had recently purchased the car and was learning to drive the stick shift, police said.

Monday was the first day that SunRail charged passengers to ride the commuter train. The previous 12 days were free, resulting in nearly 135,000 people overwhelming the system and routinely causing delays of an hour or more.

The wreck at the intersection of Packwood and Maitland avenues threatened to push SunRail behind again, but the damaged train was shunted to the side and completed its run about 90 minutes late, though the rest of the system remained on schedule.

Florida Highway Patrol Sgt. Kim Montes said trains rarely are to blame for accidents in Central Florida. The problem most often, she said, is that drivers stop their cars on the tracks because of traffic lights or go around crossing guards to beat an oncoming train.

Although FHP was not involved in the investigation Monday, she said motorists in metro Orlando are not used to trains operating with such frequency as SunRail, which runs between 34 and 37 times along its 31.5-mile route. Before SunRail, as many as 20 slow-moving CSX freight trains and six Amtrak carriers rolled through the area.

"There's nothing wrong with the system. … You have more instances of trains coming along the tracks," Montes said..

Michelle Grossman, a Maitland resident who lives off of Packwood, said she heard the crossing-arm bells, blaring horns and the train crushing the car.

"This one is horrible and nerve-racking," Grossman said of the Packwood intersection. "It's a perfect storm of danger."

This marks the second crash involving a SunRail train.

A lawn-care worker who caused SunRail's first crash nearly two weeks ago received a ticket for trying to drive across railroad tracks without enough space for safe passage. A utility trailer towed behind Juan Martinez's pickup was hit by a SunRail train May 7 at the Ronald Reagan Boulevard crossing in Longwood.

Beyond the latest accident, the biggest problem facing riders Monday was the ticket machines, some of which were not working or were responding slowly. Platform attendants often helped riders get their tickets.

With fares in place, thousands of free riders disappeared Monday. That left plenty of seats, especially in contrast to Friday, when more than 17,000 people took advantage of the last day of free rides. No ridership estimates were available for Monday.

Patty Masciantoni of Winter Park said she did not mind the joy riders, even though she had to fight the crowds to board.

"I'm glad they were riding the train. I think some people were curious," she said. "When you have people ride it for free, they'll tell their neighbors and friends, and maybe we'll get more [paying] riders. I really want this to be a success."

In DeBary, about 60 people got on the 10 a.m. train. Among them was Lawrence Sell, 66, a retired retail worker. He said he had ridden for free but did not mind paying, either.

"I'm a rail enthusiast," he said, "a rail fan."

Norma Queirolo, a legal assistant who works in downtown Orlando, was smiling as the 4:58 p.m. train at the Lynx station was on time with lots of empty seats.

"We get peace and quiet," she said. "I want peace and quiet."

We've upgraded our reader commenting system. Learn more about the new features.

The Orlando Sentinel welcomes civil dialogue about our stories; you must register with the site to participate. We filter comments for language and adherence to our Terms of Service , but not for factual accuracy. By commenting, you agree to these legal terms. Please flag inappropriate comments. Having technical problems? Check here for guidance.

*You can also sign up by texting any of the above keywords to 43886. You will receive no more than 10 messages/week per alert list. Message and data rates may apply. Text STOP to cancel or text HELP for info. You may receive subsequent messages clarifying or confirming your STOP request. T&Cs and Privacy Policy: mobile.tribune.com .
