
He attended Texas A&M where he earned a degree in Range Science and met the love of his life, a woman from Oklahoma who lured him north of the Red River.  Ruth and Chuck now have three children, all Oklahoma State University Cowboys.

Coffey was a college professor in his early days, teaching agriculture at Murray State College, even chairing the department until he joined the Noble Foundation as a pasture and range consultant in 1993. He left the Foundation a few years ago.

“You’ve retired?” I asked.

Maybe, but he’s still putting in more time ‘on the job’ than I am on mine.

The ranch is rough terrain, best worked with horses.  But the joys of working from horseback can be quickly tempered by disaster. A serious horseback-riding accident almost left him almost paralyzed. Life its ownself had struck him down.  It took a month in ICU, two months in a wheel chair, several surgeries and months of rehabilitation but he’s fully recovered and on horseback again.  Cash McCall would be proud.

It’s a recurring western theme in great American novels and real life.  Get knocked down by an equine accident or a brutal drought?  The only proper reaction is to dust off your backside and get back on that horse.

Coffey was one of the most recent appointees to the Cattlemen’s Beef Board, USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack made the announcement on December 30, 2013.  Coffey’s first orientation was a visit to the Denver CBB office just a few months ago.  He was nominated for the position by the Oklahoma Cattlemen’s Association, an organization that he joined 28 years ago when he first moved to that state.

Coffey expanded on his first visit.  “I wasn’t sure what I would see or how things worked.  I came away with a strong sense of what it meant, though.  They pulled it all together for me and now I understand what we’re supposed to do.

I was a student of Chuck Coffey's at Murray State College from 1990 to 1992.  Great guy with a great family.  He always made us students feel welcome to attend church with him and his family, which I am still greatful for to this day.  Thanks for the article and I'm glad to hear he is doing well.  I am the Rodeo Coach here at Garden City Community College in Garden City, Kansas and I can only hope that students leave here with the same fond memories that I possess of Murray State College and Tishomingo, Ok. and those memories are in large part due to Mr. Coffey.
