
You may not get the full experience here on National Journal.

“Maine is a very pro-Second Amendment state,” said the senator’s spokesman.

Whoever won a raffle for a shotgun from the Sportsman’s Alliance of Maine has Sen. Susan Collins to thank.

That raffle occurred as part of the annual State of Maine Sportsman’s Show, held March 28-30. Collins herself attended a portion of the show.

On Monday, there was no hint of shyness from Collins’s campaign spokesman Lance Dutson about the campaign having provided the raffle prize—at a time when fire departments, Little Leagues, churches, and other groups have drawn controversy for similarly raffling off firearms.

Even the Democratic candidate for Collins’s seat, Shenna Bellows, declined in an interview Monday to directly criticize Collins for her campaign’s donation of the gun.

“I can’t comment on what the Collins campaign chooses to spend its campaign contributions on,” said Bellows, who served as executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Maine for the last eight years.

David Trahan, the executive director of the Sportsman’s Alliance, said he’s come across little questioning or controversy about the donation to the group, which claims 10,000 members. “Not really. When people find out the proceeds went toward gun education, it just dies on the vine,” he said.

Tickets for the raffle were $1 for adults, free for kids. Trahan said Monday he could not recall precisely who won the shotgun, but that it was an adult. Part of the process before handing the gun over to the winner, he said, was a complete background check.

The raffle raised about $1,000 for gun education programs provided by his group and the 4-H, he said.

Concise coverage of everything I wish I had hours to read about."

Collins last year complained about attack ads run against her for her support of the bipartisan background-check amendment sponsored by Sens. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and Pat Toomey, R-Pa. The legislation failed.

National Rifle Association spokesman Andrew Arulanandam on Monday said his organization has not yet issued a grade in 2014 for Collins. “She was a C-plus in 2008” when Collins won her third term in the Senate, he said.

Concise coverage of everything I wish I had hours to read about."
