
A new website seeks to be the comprehensive guide to trails in Benton County.

Therighttrail.org was launched in July 2013. It contains information on more than 300 trails in the county.

“Over three years ago the idea came together,” said Elizabeth Records, curator of the trails website for the Greenbelt Land Trust.

The site is a cooperative effort among the trust, the city of Corvallis, Benton County, the Oregon State University College of Forestry and the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department.

Oregon Parks and Rec provided the largest amount of assistance, $60,000, or three-fourths of the total seed money.

The site’s page on the trail includes a map, links for directions, length, elevation gain (as well as an elevation chart), a starred ratings system, icons noting use features, a description written by the trail manager as well as “Know Before You Go” information on weather, pet rules and how to contact the trail manager with questions or concerns.

Also in the works are some upgrades that will make the site “more responsive” on mobile devices.

Records said she hoped the mobile kinks will be worked out by this summer and that the trust also hopes to put QR codes at trailheads to assist users with mobile devices.

Also possible in the future is Spanish language content.

The site also is not limited to information that hikers would find beneficial. The maps show bicycle lanes and also offer information useful to those running, paddling or on horseback.

One new edition to the site is scheduled to go online in the fall. That’s when a trail linking Fitton Green and Bald Hill is scheduled to be ready.

The link became possible when the trust arranged to buy 170 acres of land in the area from open space advocate Andrew Martin.

Once the new trail is completed, it will provide an unbroken off-street route from the Benton County Fairgrounds across the Bald Hill area to Fitton Green, creating a unified network of publicly accessible open space with more than 14 miles of trail.

Trail building will begin next month and volunteers are needed (see information box).

Copyright 2014 Albany Democrat Herald. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Quick notification of big news. Delivered when news breaks (used sparingly).

Get updates about the Beaver sports. Delivered 3 times a week.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
