
Biodiesel producers and farmers who raise the feedstocks for the biodiesel industry took to Capitol Hill this week, joining a group of U.S. Senate Democrats in their calls to end policy uncertainty that is hurting their industry. Terry Goerger, a soybean grower from North Dakota, expressed his concerns, especially how many farmers made plans believing Congress and the Obama Administration would continue to back biodiesel.

“We all bought into the [Renewable Fuel Standard] thinking it was the road map to the future for domestic fuels, like biodiesel. So we made the investments, we made the road map to do these things, and right now, those things are being pulled back. And it’s really caused us to think, ‘What is going to happen to our industry?’” despite the growth in the renewable fuels industry, he said.

Terry went on to tell me it’s hard for the biodiesel industry to expand, or even maintain at current levels, with the way now federal tax incentives are renewed year-to-year. He’d like to see the legislation changed to a five or 10 year plan.

“With biodiesel, it’s important to have a structured program that will assist the biodiesel industry in growing and getting where it needs to be in solving our energy needs in America,” Terry said.

He’s optimistic that there’s enough support in Congress to make the programs supporting biodiesel more stable.

This week I visit with Vincent K. Tylor, Hawaiian Landmark Images.

In this week's program Vince and I talk about his business and our love of photography.  If you need Hawaiian photography, Vince is your man.

Enter your email address and receive notifications of new posts by email.

AgWired is one of the very first agricultural information blogs and has a focus on marketing. Our information is open and free to everyone in the industry.

Besides the weekly ZimmCast we frequently publish press conferences and interviews with industry leaders in all segments of agriculture.

We've got you covered!

From the very beginning of this amazing venture in 2004, ZimmComm New Media has been providing you with live, on-site event coverage of the biggest events the industry has to offer. We've brought you live event coverage from as far away as Sweden, Japan and Brazil, just to name a few of the places we've traveled over the years. This is all in addition to our daily news and information coverage of all things Agriculture. Contact us about covering your next event!

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
