
Second Amendment supporters still have their work cut out for them in the Centennial State.

Gun-grabbers trying to get concealed weapons banned from Colorado campuses spout the party line when it comes to the current liberal obsession with college sexual assaults, but say arming women isn’t the solution.

They just don’t have any other realistic solutions to offer.

“Addressing the prevalence and risk of campus sexual assault shouldn’t be tied into a concealed gun issue,” said Ken Toltz, founder of the ludicrously misnamed Safe Campus Colorado, told the Daily Camera in an interview published Sunday.

“It’s separate and politicizes something that we’re not doing enough about,” said Toltz, who claims his group has more than half the signatures it needs to get a campus ban on the ballot in November.

Rape survivor Amanda Collins thinks it might be a start.

Collins gave testimony last March that helped convince Colorado lawmakers to turn down a concealed weapons ban on campuses. Her words also helped spark last fall’s recall elections that drove two gun one gun-grabbing Democrat from office and force the resignation of a third.

That’s the kind of clear thinking libs refuse to grasp. While arguing that college campuses have been turned into veritable rape factories, the White House last month made an election-year push to show off how much it worries about young, unmarried Democrat-voting women by putting out a 20-page report long on big words and Joe Biden, but short on reality.

Newly minted University of Colorado law school grad Katherine Whitney has no problem accepting reality.

If stopping rape is no reason to arm women then there will never be a good enough reason for the Anti-gun crowd.

they just cannot use facts or logic. it boggles the mind. they also do not believe a woman should be able to kill a man to prevent a rape. i just cant wrap my head around that belief at all as it counters everything my core being is about. Rape is one step away from murder.

that man that beat a guy to death for raping his daughter was found innocent. and he literally beat the man to death as he should have. rape needs to have a high cost in our society and it does not, people think they can be rehabilitated and they cannot.

I would think that rape is worse than murder.  With murder the person is killed and their pain comes to an end.  But with rape the victim is left to live with the bodily pain as well as the unseen injury on the victim’s soul.
