
An Illinois Department of Transportation administrator has resigned amid an investigation into his time at the agency.

Agency spokesman Guy Tridgell said Monday that Carmen Iacullo retired April 30.

Tridgell says the investigation is not connected to an agency scandal in which as many as 200 people were hired without following rules barring political hiring decisions.

A former colleague described Iacullo as “a kingmaker” at IDOT’s Schaumburg district, having a big say in who was hired and how new employees were assigned.

“He would drop [new hires] in the bureau and say, ‘Find him something to do,’” said Patricia Casale, a retired IDOT clerical secretary.

Casale said one of her roles was to type up lists of questions to be asked of prospective employees during interviews. She said she personally handed the lists to Iacullo prior to interview sessions.

In 2006, Iacullo testified about his time at the Chicago Department of Transportation during the corruption trial of Robert Sorich, patronage chief for then-Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley before being convicted of rigging the city’s hiring system to favor candidates with clout. During the trial, Iacullo talked about attending meetings with Sorich, where “Iacullo would recommend candidates, including individuals from his [Democratic] political group, for promotions,” according to court records.

“Human beings aren’t perfect and we’ve hired thousands of people and sometimes their behavior isn’t what it should be,” Quinn said.

And the beat goes on. Oy.

Iacullo and red light John Bills where both playing these games 20 years ago in streets and sanitation in Chicago. Nothing changes.

Quinn the Reformer - LOL!

During her lifetime, Mary Lee Leahy took depositions about hiring and the answer about the Rutan interviews always was a denial that candidates were ever given help. No one was ever investigated for lying during those depositions.

From the original article.

Quinn should have, and Rauner definitely should offer all state employees a pardon for state crimes related to their employment in return for their resignation.  You will let a few crooks go, but it will save a lot of time and money.

When your resume prior to state employment reads…”worked on a political campaign.” You may not be the most qualified person for the job.

So they’re ALL guilty of crimes now?  That’s a pretty dopey statement.

Word - just read that comment from 47.  Pretty darned funny stuff.  And for those that missed the subtlety, that was what Rauner said in the Charles Thomas piece about GTCR companies.

Go Patty @IDOT take down the RAT that took down Sorich…..
