
USS NEW YORK, At Sea  (NNS) -- The amphibious transport dock ship USS New York (LPD 21) received the prestigious Marjorie Sterrett Battleship Fund Award for superior performance and battle efficiency among amphibious ships in U.S. Atlantic Fleet.

The award is presented annually by the Chief of Naval Operations to one ship in the Atlantic Fleet and one in the Pacific Fleet based on overall readiness.

The crew was cited for their indomitable spirit, superior performance and consistently high standards of readiness. "Our crew is honored to receive this prestigious award. It is another symbol of the dedication they have to make New York the best ship in the fleet; always ready to go and do the nation's bidding," said Lt. Justin Bernard, command chaplain for New York.

The award includes a small monetary stipend, which will be given to the ship's Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) fund to benefit crewmembers.  "Getting this award is a huge honor to the crew of USS New York and all who have served on her. It is a reflection of the dedication, determination and hard work of every Sailor and Marine on board. This shows that we are ready for any task and any mission that can be given to us," said Operation Specialist 2nd Class Timothy Woelky, MWR president aboard New York.

"The stipend that we receive for this award will go into our MWR fund and will be used anywhere from gym equipment to command functions and competitions."

The Marjorie Sterrett Battleship Fund Award was established in 1917 by the New York Tribune Association. The fund was initiated by a letter from 13-year-old Marjorie Sterrett in February 1916. Marjorie, who lived in Brooklyn, contributed her weekly allowance of a dime to "Help build a battleship for Uncle Sam." Prior to World War II, income from this fund was used to pay prizes annually to turret and gun crews making the highest scores in short-range battle practice, and submarine crews making the highest scores in torpedo firing. It is now used to recognize those ships which display battle efficiency and emphasize readiness and fitness of the ship.

"It is pretty amazing that a 13-year-old girl would give her allowance to build a battleship. If she were alive today, I'm sure Marjorie would be incredibly proud to know of the impact she has had on our Navy. I bet she would be equally proud to know USS New York, a ship named for her home state, has won her namesake award," said Capt. Christopher Brunett, commanding officer of New York. "The crew of New York take their service very seriously and never forget the brave men and women we are sworn to defend. They worked extremely hard for this award and I couldn't be prouder of them."
