
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

State Rep. Jenifer Loon, R-Eden Prairie, and other Republican lawmakers discuss the newly concluded 2014 state legislative session Monday at St. Cloud Regional Airport.

Minnesota's 2014 legislative session is new to the history books. Now Republican legislators, eager to regain relevance in the session to come, are pivoting toward campaign season.

GOP legislators sketched the contours of their campaign message Monday in a stop at St. Cloud Regional Airport. The big picture: Complete DFL control of the state Capitol for the last two years has been bad for Minnesota.

The stop came on a statewide tour by GOP lawmakers to mark the close of the legislative session Friday.

In the session's waning hours, the DFL-controlled Legislature enacted more than $100 million in tax cuts. Lawmakers passed a budget bill that boosts spending for schools, expands broadband Internet access and boosts pay for home- and community-based caregivers for the disabled or elderly.

They passed a $1.1 billion public works package with more than $40 million for St. Cloud-area construction projects. And they voted to legalize medical marijuana on a limited basis, for very sick Minnesotans who enroll in a state research study.

Between now and Election Day, DFLers will set about explaining those decisions to voters.

Republicans, meanwhile, hope to regain control of the state House, where every seat is for grabs. Republicans have their eyes a dozen or more House seats with incumbents they consider vulnerable, most of which are in the suburban Twin Cities or rural Minnesota.

In this area, they're angling for the House seat now held by DFL Rep. Zachary Dorholt of St. Cloud.

House Minority Leader Kurt Daudt, Senate Minority Leader David Hann and area GOP lawmakers hammered DFLers Monday for not doing doing enough to address problems with MNsure, for increasing spending, for removing graduation tests for outgoing high schoolers and for not borrowing more for roads and bridges.

Then there's what Daudt described as a centerpiece issue for Republicans: DFLers' "misplaced priorities" in spending $77 million on an office building for legislators.

"It fits in a broader theme of what we've seen as Democrats kind of putting themselves before the people that they represent," Daudt said.

Republicans delivered plenty of shots to MNsure, Minnesota's health coverage marketplace under the federal health care act.

During the enrollment crushes of late 2013 and early 2014, MNsure website glitches caused headaches and likely hampered enrollment. That came despite federal funds that went to build the exchange. Republicans criticize the results obtained for the amount spent on the exchange and the fact that Minnesotans won't know next year's MNsure insurance rates until November.

Yet Republicans struggled Monday to articulate what state lawmakers can do about MNsure. It was established in accordance with the federal health care law, and it's governed by a board of directors whose members are appointed by the governor.

"Something has to be done," Hann said. "It's just unacceptable for the current legislative majorities to say, 'Well, there's nothing we can do.' "

Daudt confirmed House Republicans view the seat now held by Dorholt, District 14B, as a pickup opportunity. Former GOP Rep. Jim Knoblach is set to challenge the first-term Dorholt in that district, which covers east, central and north-central St. Cloud and Haven and Minden townships.

"Knoblach is a very strong candidate," Daudt said. "He's got a lot of experience."

Follow Mark Sommerhauser on Twitter @msommerhauser.
