
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - A federal judge threw out Oregon's same-sex marriage ban Monday, marking the 13th consecutive legal victory for gay marriage advocates since last year's U.S. Supreme Court ruling that overturned part of a federal ban.

U.S. District Judge Michael McShane in Eugene ruled the voter-approved ban unconstitutionally discriminates against same-sex couples, and he ordered the state to stop enforcing it.

"I believe that if we can look for a moment past gender and sexuality, we can see in these plaintiffs nothing more or less than our own families," he wrote. "Families who we would expect our constitution to protect, if not exalt, in equal measure."

State officials earlier refused to defend Oregon's constitutional ban, and said they'd be prepared to carry out same-sex marriages almost immediately if McShane struck it down.

In Portland, couples lined up outside the Multnomah County clerk's office in anticipation of Monday's ruling. Among them were Laurie Brown and Julie Engbloom, who got engaged on their 10th anniversary in April.

"We always knew we wanted to spend our whole life together," Brown said. "This opportunity has come. It feels right. Everything has fallen into place."

The National Organization for Marriage sought to intervene in the cases brought by four gay and lesbian couples, and defend the ban on behalf of its Oregon members. But McShane rejected its request.

The group then appealed, and on Monday a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals denied its bid for an emergency stay.

McShane joins judges in seven other states who have struck down same-sex marriage bans, though appeals are underway.

Many predicted last year's Supreme Court ruling would create a pathway for states to act, as polls showed a majority of Americans now support gay marriage. Indeed, lower-court judges have repeatedly cited that decision when striking down bans.

Opposition remains stiff in many places, with critics pointing out that most states still prohibit gay marriage. They also note that in most states that do allow gay marriage, it was the work of courts or legislatures, not the people.

The Oregon Family Council released a strongly worded statement Monday saying the state colluded with gay-rights groups to sidestep the will of voters, and a judge allowed it.

McCombs reported from Salt Lake City. Associated Press writer Gosia Wozniacka contributed to this report.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
