
Share This Story!

TRENTON, N.J. — Private lawyers hired by Gov. Chris Christie's office after the George Washington Bridge scandal erupted are on pace to bill taxpayers roughly $3 million for their work.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Attorney Randy Mastro holds up a copy of his report during a March news conference.

TRENTON, N.J. — Private lawyers hired by Gov. Chris Christie's office after the George Washington Bridge scandal erupted are on pace to bill taxpayers roughly $3 million for their work, and it appears well over half that tab is being incurred for events unrelated to whatever led to the lane closures in Fort Lee.

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher was originally hired for an internal investigation of the bridge incident and cooperation with the U.S. Attorney's Office inquiry. But its work rapidly expanded to include a review of the allegations leveled by Hoboken Mayor Dawn Zimmer that federal Sandy aid was withheld by the state because of the city's unwillingness to approve an unrelated development project.

The cost for the review was nearly $1.1 million just for three weeks in January, not counting similarly intense hours logged in February and March and additional work this spring. That's a pace to reach or top $3 million, which equals half the cost for running Christie's office for a year. That's the case even after Gibson Dunn agreed to lower its hourly fee from $650 to $350 and not bill for travel and other expenses, which the firm said cut the bill by nearly half for January.

There are other costs, as well. For instance, the state will be paying for some employees' private attorneys. Also, outside counsel hired by the Legislature has billed approximately $750,000 through March.

Christie was asked about the taxpayer costs associated with the inquiries at an April 29 news conference. He said the costs for retaining Gibson Dunn go beyond the internal investigation to complying with subpoenas from lawmakers and federal prosecutors.

"The fact is it's not just the administration doing an internal investigation but it's also the administration having to comply with all the various other investigations and requests for information, both formal and informal, that have come in to the administration. So there's a lot that is going to be involved in the cost of this, just not the internal investigation but having lawyers do that and lawyers who have to represent people who are called as witnesses. So there's a lot, and we see that the costs are running up, too, on the legislative side of things," Christie said.

Gibson Dunn's dual work as investigator of and attorney for the investigator will lead to billing beyond the interviews conducted for the review, but how much the final tab will be is difficult to assess.

"Policymakers have to make the judgment, ultimately, about whether this is money well spent or not, and I assume that the people who are in charge of making these decisions will make those decisions and be held accountable for them. At this juncture, from my perspective, my job is to fully cooperate and have the administration fully cooperate with any appropriate investigations that are ongoing, and to do that, you have to employ lawyers to do it. It's the only way to do it responsibly, effectively and thoroughly,' Christie said.

"So it's not a decision for me to make," he said. "I'm not the one driving the investigations. Others are. They'll have to make the judgment as to if and when there comes a time where there's diminishing returns on that investment," the governor said.

Despite concerns voiced months ago by allies of Christie that the select investigative committee's investigation would veer into the Hoboken issue, almost all the questions at the panel's first two interview sessions have focused on issues connected to the bridge.

Instead it was the internal investigation that grew in scope.

"Gov. Christie made clear last week that he will conduct an internal review to uncover the facts surrounding the lane closures in Fort Lee," said Christie's office in a Jan. 16 announcement. "… This administration is committed to ensuring that what happened here never happens again."

The expansion of the internal investigation's scope was apparent in the Jan. 28 letter in which the Department of Law and Public Safety finally confirmed Gibson Dunn's retention, two weeks after the firm's work began and at a time when 23 interviews had already been done.

Christie's office didn't respond to a request for comment about the investigation's focus on Zimmer's allegations.

Gibson Dunn has frequently acknowledged the impact the Sandy aid allegations had on its internal investigation, both in the internal report and in the first bill it submitted seeking payment.

"Our mandate, and scope of work, has expanded as allegations asserted have evolved and multiplied," says the March 26 report.

"At the outset of this engagement, the sweeping scope of these subpoenas (which ultimately required us to review hundreds of thousands of documents totaling millions of pages) and the full extent of our internal review (which expanded to include Hoboken Sandy aid allegations) were not yet known," one of the firm's attorneys, Alexander Southwell, wrote in a May 1 cover letter accompanying the first bill.
