
According to the SD Dept. of Agriculture, there are about 216 South Dakotans keeping bees. Around 93 of these producers maintain their bees on a commercial scale.

South Dakota usually ranks in the top five states for number of hives (colonies). South Dakota’s soils, topography and climate generally provide the essential natural ingredients for the production of sizeable crops of high quality honey. The keeping of honeybees, like all other South Dakota agricultural businesses, is dependent on the vagaries of South Dakota weather. South Dakota produces a highly desirable, mild flavored and light colored alfalfa-sweet clover blend of honey.

Bee Keeping Resources Bee Health: This University of Minnesota Extension publication explains bee health.

Beekeeping Manuals and Videos: Manuals and videos available for free download and available for purchase from the University of Minnesota Extension.

Classes for Beekeeping in Northern Climates: These are a selection of classes offered from University of Minnesota: Interested in becoming a beekeeper? Dr. Marla Spivak and Gary Reuter from the University of Minnesota Bee Lab will help you get started in beekeeping. If you have had no prior experience keeping bees in our cold climate, Beekeeping in Northern Climates, Part 1 will teach you everything you need to know for a successful first year.

Need help keeping your bees alive and healthy year after year? If you have taken Beekeeping Part 1, or have prior beekeeping experience, this engaging course is for you. Taught by Dr. Marla Spivak and Gary Reuter from the University of Minnesota Bee Lab, Beekeeping in Northern Climates, Part 2 will help you maintain healthy bee colonies long term.

State law requires that all apiaries, including hobbyists, be registered with the Department of Agriculture by February 1st of each year; or within 10 days of coming into possession of an apiary. The state has established a 3-mile distance between apiaries. This lessens the contact of bees and helps prevent the transfer of disease. For information on the State Apiary Inspection Program, visit the SD Department of Agriculture website.

The state beekeeping/apiary resources page includes links to program information, online and print forms, laws and production reports. For more information on beekeeping in South Dakota contact Agronomy Services.

Honey Marketing Resources Labeling: The Honey Board has created an in depth resource for beekeepers regarding honey labeling.

Honey Producers List for Minnesota: This list of honey producers links to websites and information about honey producers. Find ideas for marketing by viewing their websites. Honey Producers List for South Dakota: The Honey Board keeps a list of honey producers in South Dakota.

Consumer Attitudes: Each year, the Honey Board conducts a research study called the “Use and Attitudes Survey.” View the surveys and improve your marketing insight. Sue Bee: is a member-owned honey-marketing cooperative that is based in Sioux City, Iowa. This cooperative began in 1921 with just five beekeepers. In 2013, there are more than 300 members and collectively around 40 million pounds of honey are processed each year.

Copyright 2014 Tri State Neighbor. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
