
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Attorney Randy Mastro holds up a copy of his report during a March news conference.

Private lawyers hired by Gov. Chris Christie's office after the George Washington Bridge scandal erupted are on pace to bill taxpayers roughly $3 million for their work, and it appears well over half that tab is being incurred for events unrelated to whatever led to the lane closures in Fort Lee.

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher was originally hired for an internal investigation of the bridge incident and cooperation with the U.S. Attorney's Office inquiry. But its work rapidly expanded to include a review of the allegations leveled by Hoboken Mayor Dawn Zimmer that federal Sandy aid was withheld by the state because of the city's unwillingness to approve an unrelated development project.

The cost for the review was nearly $1.1 million just for three weeks in January, not counting similarly intense hours logged in February and March and additional work this spring. That's a pace to reach or top $3 million, which equals half the cost for running Christie's office for a year. That's the case even after Gibson Dunn agreed to lower its hourly fee from $650 to $350 and not bill for travel and other expenses, which the firm said cut the bill by nearly half for January.

There are other costs, as well. For instance, the state will be paying for some employees' private attorneys. Also, outside counsel hired by the Legislature has billed approximately $750,000 through March.

Christie was asked about the taxpayer costs associated with the inquiries at an April 29 news conference. He said the costs for retaining Gibson Dunn go beyond the internal investigation to complying with subpoenas from lawmakers and federal prosecutors.

"The fact is it's not just the administration doing an internal investigation but it's also the administration having to comply with all the various other investigations and requests for information, both formal and informal, that have come in to the administration. So there's a lot that is going to be involved in the cost of this, just not the internal investigation but having lawyers do that and lawyers who have to represent people who are called as witnesses. So there's a lot, and we see that the costs are running up, too, on the legislative side of things," Christie said.

Gibson Dunn's dual work as investigator of and attorney for the investigator will lead to billing beyond the interviews conducted for the review, but how much the final tab will be is difficult to assess.

"Policymakers have to make the judgment, ultimately, about whether this is money well spent or not, and I assume that the people who are in charge of making these decisions will make those decisions and be held accountable for them. At this juncture, from my perspective, my job is to fully cooperate and have the administration fully cooperate with any appropriate investigations that are ongoing, and to do that, you have to employ lawyers to do it. It's the only way to do it responsibly, effectively and thoroughly,' Christie said.

"So it's not a decision for me to make," he said. "I'm not the one driving the investigations. Others are. They'll have to make the judgment as to if and when there comes a time where there's diminishing returns on that investment," the governor said.

Despite concerns voiced months ago by allies of Christie that the select investigative committee's investigation would veer into the Hoboken issue, almost all the questions at the panel's first two interview sessions have focused on issues connected to the bridge.

Instead it was the internal investigation that grew in scope.

"Gov. Christie made clear last week that he will conduct an internal review to uncover the facts surrounding the lane closures in Fort Lee," said Christie's office in a Jan. 16 announcement. "… This administration is committed to ensuring that what happened here never happens again."

The expansion of the internal investigation's scope was apparent in the Jan. 28 letter in which the Department of Law and Public Safety finally confirmed Gibson Dunn's retention, two weeks after the firm's work began and at a time when 23 interviews had already been done.

"This letter is to confirm the retention of your firm to represent the Office of the Governor, in all pending Legislative and United States Attorney inquiries and related matters," the letter said.

The first eight interviews, conducted between Jan. 17 and 21, were related to the George Washington Bridge. They were done with people who are or were staffers in Christie's office – Maria Comella, Nicole Crifo, Michael Drewniak, Regina Egea, Deborah Gramiccioni, Paul Matey, Kevin O'Dowd and Colin Reed.

That means 31 of the next 37 interviews were related to Zimmer's accusations about Sandy aid, which broke into a story when they were first reported by MSNBC on Jan. 18 and escalated a day later when Zimmer said she had met with federal prosecutors Jan. 19 at their request.

Gibson Dunn lawyers interviewed Lt. Gov. Kim Guadagno on Jan. 22 and 27. They spoke with Marc Ferzan, who heads the Governor's Office of Recovery and Rebuilding, on Jan. 22, 23 and 27; he would ultimately be interviewed five times, which was more than any other person. Both, along with Community Affairs Commissioner Richard Constable, who was first interviewed Jan. 25, were accused by Zimmer of threatening to withhold Sandy aid unless a high-rise project was approved. Each of them has denied that. Constable and Ferzan each eventually hired private counsel, while Guadagno did not.

Interview notes released by Gibson Dunn indicate 31 of the 45 interviews its lawyers did for its investigation in January were with people who were only asked about Sandy aid, not the bridge. Seven were with people asked about both topics, and seven were with people asked only about the bridge.

Fifty-nine of the 75 people ultimately interviewed for the internal report were asked about the Sandy aid allegations, compared with 29 who were asked about the George Washington Bridge. Setting aside the 13 people asked about both, there were nearly three times as many Sandy-only interview subjects as George Washington Bridge ones.

In the final report, the Hoboken issue is addressed on 136 pages and the GWB issue on 108 pages.

Christie's office didn't respond to a request for comment about the investigation's focus on Zimmer's allegations.

Gibson Dunn has frequently acknowledged the impact the Sandy aid allegations had on its internal investigation, both in the internal report and in the first bill it submitted seeking payment.

"Our mandate, and scope of work, has expanded as allegations asserted have evolved and multiplied," says the March 26 report.

"At the outset of this engagement, the sweeping scope of these subpoenas (which ultimately required us to review hundreds of thousands of documents totaling millions of pages) and the full extent of our internal review (which expanded to include Hoboken Sandy aid allegations) were not yet known," one of the firm's attorneys, Alexander Southwell, wrote in a May 1 cover letter accompanying the first bill.

The law firm billed the state $1,077,785 for its work between Jan. 12 and 31. That covered both the internal investigation and the response to subpoenas from both the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Legislature's special committee investigating the bridge closures.

The detailed invoice for January submitted by Gibson Dunn on May 1 indicates federal prosecutors made contact with the firm as early as Jan. 16, the day the firm's hiring was announced. On Jan. 25, a lawyer began reviewing documents for their responsiveness to the federal and legislative subpoenas.

The January work included 42 percent of the interviews that would ultimately be conducted, 45 of 106. Another 31 were done in February and 30 in March – plus one April 8, a follow-up call to Belmar Mayor Matthew Doherty nearly two weeks after the report's release to confirm the accuracy of the memo summarizing his three earlier interviews.

It's not possible from the information made public to say how much of the nearly $1.1 million was related to the bridge and how much to Sandy aid. Twelve lawyers conducted interviews and 25 others also did work on the case, and many of the 3,121 hours billed can't be specifically assigned to either side of the investigation from the information in the interview memoranda.

Including the interviews done after January, the work associated with the completion of the internal report published March 26, work associated with the preparation of interview memoranda for public release, continuing cooperation with subpoenas and other legal work, the final bill will be significantly higher than what was billed for the first three weeks on the job.
