
The New York Times is congenitally incapable of reporting Israeli murder of Palestinians. Such reports if mentioned are always qualified either by a convoluted story vomited by Israeli military propagandists or by invented acts of violence by the other side. Look at this: " After two young Palestinian men were killed Thursday by Israeli security forces during a demonstration commemorating the Nakba — Arabic for “catastrophe,” and the word used to describe Israel’s destruction of Palestinian villages as it became a state in 1948 — two Israeli journalists said they were nearly “lynched” by a Palestinian mob ."  Today, I NEARLY invented a cure for cancer.

(Angry Arab speaks at Burj Barajnah Palestinian Refugee Camp, June '04).

-Economist has reported on October 30th, 2003 that a Catholic priest "placed a relic of Mother Teresa" on the body of Terri Schiavo who has been in a coma in a Florida hospital.

As'ad AbuKhalil, born March 16, 1960. From Tyre, Lebanon, grew up in Beirut. Received his BA and MA from American University of Beirut in pol sc. Came to US in 1983 and received his PhD in comparative government from Georgetown University. Taught at Tufts University, Georgetown University, George Washington University, Colorado College, and Randolph-Macon Woman's College. Served as a Scholar-in-Residence at Middle East Institute in Washington DC. He served as free-lance Middle East consultant for NBC News and ABC News, an experience that only served to increase his disdain for maintream US media. He is now professor of political science at California State University, Stanislaus. His favorite food is fried eggplants.

The comments that appear in the comments' section are unedited and uncensored.  The thoughtful and thoughtless, sane and insane, loving and hateful, wise and unwise ideas that they contain do not represent the Angry Arab.  They only represent those who write them, whoever they are.

Blog development, design, and conception by N.B. Christiansen, aka "the Affable Anglo"
