
Braulio Castillo, a former IRS contractor who became embroiled in a congressional investigation last year, was indicted on first-degree murder charges by a Loudoun County grand jury Monday in connection with the March 20 killing of his estranged wife.

Castillo, 43, of Ashburn was also indicted on charges of breaking and entering with intent to commit murder and violation of a protective order, according to the Loudoun County commonwealth’s attorney’s office.

Castillo’s estranged wife, Michelle G. Castillo, 43, was found dead in her home on Belmont Station Drive on the morning of March 20, according to authorities. Deputies responded to her home after receiving a call from a neighbor asking that they check on her welfare, authorities said.

Because the death at first appeared to be a suicide — Michelle Castillo’s body was found hanging from a shower — charges were not filed against Castillo until April 1, after a medical examiner’s findings indicated that the victim’s injuries were not self-inflicted, authorities said.

Castillo remains held at the Loudoun County Adult Detention Center on $2 million bond, according to authorities.

The former contractor previously came under fire during a House hearing last summer after a federal probe found that he had improperly claimed service-disabled veteran status in 2012. According to a report by the Federal Times, Castillo’s claim stemmed from a minor ankle injury during a fall in 1984, when he was attending the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
