
Law360, New York (May 19, 2014,  7:24 PM ET) -- A federal judge in Oregon struck down the state's ban on same-sex marriage Monday, ruling that Oregon's marriage laws were at odds with the U.S. Constitution and that no legitimate state purpose justified blocking gay and lesbian couples from tying the knot.

U.S. District Judge Michael McShane issued a 26-page opinion that said the Oregon's constitutional ban on gay marriage — known as Measure 36, passed by state voters in 2004 — and statutory provisions limiting marriage to one man and one woman violated the federal Constitution.

"Because Oregon's marriage laws discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation without a rational relationship to any legitimate government interest, the laws violate the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution,” Monday's ruling said.

Judge McShane's order took immediate effect, giving same sex-couples a green light to wed right away. Dorsay & Easton LLP's Lea Ann Easton, an attorney for two of the plaintiff couples in the consolidated litigation, told Law360 Monday evening that her clients had gotten married earlier in the day.

A representative for NOM could not be immediately reached for comment.

The plaintiffs, which included four couples seeking a green light to marry, filed separate suits in late 2013, naming Oregon Gov. John Kitzhaber and state Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, among others, as defendants.

The defendants agreed that the same-sex marriage ban was unsound, Judge McShane noted.

"The defendants concede that Oregon's marriage laws banning same-gender marriage are unconstitutional and legally indefensible, but state they are legally obligated to enforce the laws until this court declares the laws unconstitutional. The case, in this respect, presents itself to this court as something akin to a friendly tennis match rather than a contested and robust proceeding between adversaries," Monday's opinion said.

Rosenblum said in a statement Monday that she was delighted with Judge McShane's ruling.

"The ruling affirms our state's commitment to equal protection under the law. It says, plainly and simply, that under the supreme law of the land, it is not OK to deny same-sex couples in Oregon the same right to marry that is given to opposite-sex couples," Rosenblum said.

Judge McShane noted that the landmark Windsor case — in which the U.S. Supreme Court struck Section 3 of the federal Defense of Marriage Act as unconstitutional — and the lawsuit he was ruling on could be distinguished, and that state marriage laws like Oregon's were "simply beyond the ambit of the Windsor ruling."

Yet, he continued, the case at hand and the Windsor case share on underlying principle, which is that state marriage laws should not degrade or demean the plaintiffs in violation of their equal protection rights.

Federal and state judges outside of Oregon have also seen eye to eye with plaintiffs challenging state same-sex marriage bans. A state judge in Arkansas, for example, ruled this month that that state's ban was unconstitutional.

In April, Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring filed a Fourth Circuit brief supporting a lower court's finding that his state's prohibition on gay marriage was unconstitutional, arguing that every federal court to decide whether states' same-sex marriage bans pass constitutional muster since the Windsor decision has struck those prohibitions down.

The state defendants are represented by Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, Sheila Potter, Anna Joyce and Mary Williams.

The lead case is Geiger et al. v. Kitzhaber et al., case number 6:13-cv-01834 , in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon.

--Editing by Katherine Rautenberg.
