
The U.S. government is monitoring the unrest in Tripoli and weighing "minute by minute, hour by hour" whether to evacuate the American embassy following an outbreak of unrest in the capital.

WASHINGTON, May 19 (UPI) -- U.S. officials are considering closing the American embassy in Libya a day after violence broke out Sunday in the capital city of Tripoli.

Weighing the decision to remain or evacuate, a defense official told CNN , is "minute by minute, hour by hour."

American military assets have been pre-positioned at a naval base in Sigonella, Italy. The eight V-22 Osprey aircraft and 200 Marines stationed in Moron, Spain -- part of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force Crisis Response Team that was stood up after the 2012 attack on U.S. Consulate Benghazi -- could be called upon to help evacuate the embassy, the official said.

Militia members opposed to Islamist control of the Libyan government overtook the Libyan parliament building, prompting large-scale unrest in the capital.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
