
Share This Story!

During its 17 years of existence the STRAIGHT, Inc. drug rehabilitation program graduated roughly 12,000 people nationwide.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The latest Quinnipiac Poll shows four out of every five Florida voters support legalizing medical marijuana. But that's not stopping The "Vote No on 2" campaign, they've launched a website. Its aim is to defeat Amendment 2. Among those fighting against legalizing medical marijuana is anti-drug advocate and prominent Florida businessman, Mel Sembler.

Sembler is the founder of STRAIGHT Inc., a drug rehab program for kids that folded in 1993. Its license was revoked following a ream of lawsuits and claims of abuse.

Brother and sister, Jason and Jennifer Fielder opened up about their experience at STRAIGHT. Walking by an old STRAIGHT facility on the corner of Silver Star Road and Industrial Boulevard in Orlando proved to be difficult for them.

"A total of 12 to 14 hours a day we would stay in this warehouse there," said Jason Fielder.

During its 17 years of existence the STRAIGHT, Inc. drug rehabilitation program graduated roughly 12,000 people nationwide, Fielder said he was one of those graduates.

"The conditions in your local jail or prison would of been easier to deal with," said Fielder.

There are many graduates who say STRAIGHT, Inc. has helped them to beat their drug addictions. But in Fielder's case he said he was never an addict, just a teen at the time forced into STRAIGHT.

"Once they take you in for an evaluation nobody is getting out," said Jennifer Fielder.

She says she was admitted into the Orlando facility in 1986 after running away from home at 14 years old. STRAIGHT Inc. had a family-oriented treatment approach.

"They made the family come to the group wraps every Friday night to visit Jennifer and to be involved in the program," said Jason Fielder.

That involvement would become more than he could ever imagine. Following a 14 day evaluation he says he was admitted to the program.

"I was at that point held captive and admitted into the STRAIGHT program," said Jason Fielder.

He says he didn't make it back out until 23 months later. And claims that while inside he not only experienced abuse but became the abuser. At STRAIGHT some therapy treatments were conducted by other kids at different stages of the program.

A documentary currently in the works aims to shed light on what went on in what the Fielders call an extremely dark place.

Fix My Kid STRAIGHT Inc. and the Rise of the Troubled Teen Industry, includes interviews with people who were once treated at STRAIGHT.

Sharing their claims of suicide, rape and brutal beatings.

"I was sitting at the table and one of the guys picked me up by the neck and threw me back on the table because I tried to escape from their house," said Jennifer Fielder.

She said she escaped from the program three separate times before finally convincing her parents that in the program she was not being helped. Similar claims of abuse and falsely being admitted into the program popped up throughout the years. Lawsuits were filed against STRAIGHT, Inc., investigations done by state agencies and ultimately all of the programs shut down by 1993.

"These abusive programs are still alive," said Jason Fielder. "And they're in the state of Florida right now."

The founders of STRAIGHT, Inc. Mel and Betty Sembler over the years have gained recognition for their activism in the anti-drug movement.

And maintain they helped thousands of kids battling drug addiction.

The directors of Fix My Kid said of the more than 50 people they interviewed one person did say he was cured of his addiction, but doesn't agree with the methods used at STRAIGHT.

For more information on the documentary Fix My Kid STRAIGHT Inc. and the Rise of the Troubled Teen Industry click here.

On this website you'll find more information and ways to connect with other people who say they are survivors of the STRAIGHT program.
