
ARLINGTON, Va., May 1, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- ATK ATK, +0.64% a leader in weaponized, special-mission aircraft, in conjunction with King Abdullah II Design and Development Bureau (KADDB), has delivered the first modified CASA-235 light gunship aircraft to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. ATK was awarded a contract by KADDB to modify two of the country's CASA-235 transport aircraft into highly capable and cost-effective special mission aircraft. The completed aircraft has been delivered to the customer and will be featured during the 10th edition of the Special Operations Conference and Exhibition (SOFEX), May 6-8, 2014, in Amman, Jordan.

ATK, with the full participation of KADDB, began the U.S.-based flight and gun test program in the fall of 2013. The comprehensive test program was conducted to validate the performance of the gunship and to perform system checkouts. Testing included a full suite of aircraft flying qualities, sensor and weapons testing, with accuracy validation completed in March 2014.

"The delivery of this light gunship is a significant achievement for the program and our collaborative partnership with KADDB and Jordan," said Mike Kahn, senior vice president and president of ATK's Defense Group. "We brought together our strong weapon and mission systems expertise from across ATK Defense to provide this important multi-mission gunship capability to our allies."

In collaboration with KADDB, ATK developed and provided the system integration and aircraft modifications to turn a CASA-235 cargo plane into a multi-mission gunship. Modifications included the installation of an electro-optical targeting system, a laser designator, aircraft self-protection equipment, a synthetic aperture radar and an armaments capability that provides sustained and precise firepower in a variety of scenarios using Hellfire laser-guided missiles, 2.75-inch rockets, and a side-mounted M230 link-fed 30mm chain gun. The ATK-supplied gun is controlled by the fire-control system, automatically linking the gun's aim point to the selected target of interest, as illuminated by the mission operators using the laser designator. These capabilities are integrated with and controlled by ATK's Mission System that provides both day and night reconnaissance and fire control capabilities, and the ability to acquire, monitor and track items of interest.

The gunship capability package is part of ATK's Special Mission Aircraft product portfolio, which provides affordable, responsive and advanced capabilities to customer-preferred platforms, including a roll-on, roll-off palletized approach. ATK's expertise includes outfitting various aircraft -- including the Alenia C-27J, CASA CN-235/295, Lockheed C-130, Bombardier Dash-8, Hawker Beechcraft King Air, Cessna Caravan and others -- with integrated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance and weapons employment capabilities.

Established in 1999, The King Abdullah II Design and Development Bureau (KADDB) is an independent government entity within the Jordan Armed Forces (JAF) that aims to be the globally preferred partner in designing and developing defense products and security solutions in the region. The scope of work conducted by the Bureau covers the full spectrum of Defence Design and Development, Test and Evaluation, Technology Incubation in the Kingdom, as well as Defence Technology Training.

News and information can be found on the Internet at www.KADDB.mil.jo .

ATK's Defense Group is an industry leader in providing innovative and affordable ammunition, precision and strike weapons, electronic warfare systems, and missile components across air-, sea-, and land-based systems.

ATK is an aerospace, defense, and commercial products company with operations in 22 states, Puerto Rico, and internationally. News and information can be found on the Internet at www.atk.com , on Facebook at www.facebook.com/atk , or on Twitter @ATK.

Certain information discussed in this press release constitutes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Although ATK believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be achieved.  Forward-looking information is subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Among those factors are: changes in governmental spending, budgetary policies and product sourcing strategies; the company's competitive environment; the terms and timing of awards and contracts; and economic conditions.  ATK undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. For further information on factors that could impact ATK, and statements contained herein, please refer to ATK's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
