
Justice Geoffrey Crawford. File photo.

President Barack Obama will nominate Associate Justice Geoffrey Crawford of the Vermont Supreme Court to serve as Vermont’s next federal court judge, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said Monday.

Crawford was appointed to the state’s highest court in October after serving in the state superior court system.

Leahy recommended Crawford in March to succeed U.S. District Judge William Sessions, who will accept senior status. If approved, Crawford will join Judge Christina Reiss on the federal bench from Vermont.

According to the news release, Crawford earned an undergraduate degree from Yale and a law degree from Harvard Law School in 1980. From 1980 to 1981 he served as a law clerk to Hon. Albert W. Coffrin for the U.S. District Court, for the District of Vermont. From 1981 to 1984 he was an associate at Burlingham, Underwood & Lord in New York City. From 1984 to 1987 he was an associate at Manchester & O’Neill. In 1987 he and Jerome F. O’Neill formed the firm of O’Neill, Crawford & Green, where he practiced until 2002. In November 2002 he was appointed as a Vermont Superior Court judge by Gov. Howard Dean. In October 2013 he was sworn in as an associate justice of the Vermont Supreme Court by Gov. Peter Shumlin. He and his wife have raised five children.

VTDigger.org requires that all commenters identify themselves by their authentic first and last names. Initials, pseudonyms or screen names are not permissible. The purpose of this policy is to encourage a civil discourse among neighbors who are willing to stand behind their identities and their comments.

As a result of our comment policy, VTDigger.org has created a safe zone for readers who wish to engage in a thoughtful discussion on a range of subjects, regardless of where they stand. We hope you join the conversation.

VTDigger.org does not share specific information about our readers with other entities. Email addresses we collect through our subscription list and comment submissions are kept private.

We use Google analytics to generate aggregated data regarding the size and geographic distribution of our readership. This information helps us gauge how many readers come to the website and what towns they live in. It does not include addresses or other identifying characteristics about our readers.

We're an independent nonprofit organization, your donation helps fund the digging, and, it's tax deductible.

Thanks for reporting an error with the story, "Obama to nominate Crawford as federal judge"
