
Teenage girl to Biden: "I could only tolerate a high school dance if I was to be escorted by the most delightful man in America."

WASHINGTON, May 19 (UPI) -- A teenage girl in Connecticut who sent a letter to Vice President Joe Biden asking him to her senior prom is going to the White House to meet her political crush in person.

17-year-old Talia Maselli was not planning to attend her senior prom, but last fall sent a letter to the Vice President's office saying she would if the popular politico would be her date.

"I am inviting you so far in advance because I'm sure many 17-year-old girls send you prom invitations, and I had to beat them to it," Maselli wrote. "I could only tolerate a high school dance if I was to be escorted by the most delightful man in America."

Months later, she was shocked to receive a handwritten note and corsage from Vice President Biden.

"I am flattered, but my schedule will not permit me to be in Connecticut on Friday evening," Biden's note read . "But I hope you will accept this corsage and enjoy your prom as much as I did mine."

Biden went on to invite Maselli to the White House, a trip that will probably occur July.

"I was never really looking forward to going to prom," Maselli told the Hartford Courant . "I'm looking forward to going to Washington D.C."

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
