
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Sinn Féin president Gerry Adams will travel to Washington later this month for his first visit to the US since his arrest by police investigating the 1972 murder of Jean McConville.

Mr Adams, who has denied any involvement in the abduction and killing of the widowed Belfast mother of 10, will brief political leaders in the US and at the State Department on “the current concerns about the peace process,” Sinn Féin said in a press release announcing his 48-hour visit starting on May 28th.

The Sinn Féin leader said the peace process was “facing some turbulence” at this time, blaming the British government for failing to deal with the outstanding issues of the Belfast Agreement.

He cited London’s refusal to sign up to the compromises proposed by former US diplomat Richard Haass on issues of the past and the British government’s “wooing” of the DUP at Westminster as a possible ally in the event of a hung parliament next year for problems in the peace process.

The Co Louth TD said that on his trip to Washington he would seek “renewed focus and support” for the peace process and the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement.

There was widespread coverage in the US media of Mr Adams’s detention for four days of questioning earlier this month with Irish-American congressmen Peter King , a Republican from New York, and Richard Neal , a Democrat from Massachusetts , querying its timing ahead of elections in Ireland .

The US is fertile fundraising ground for Sinn Féin; the party’s US wing, Friends of Sinn Féin has raised more than $10 million (€7.2 million) over the past nine years from American donors.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
