
The SEC investigation of Mr. O'Meally began in 2003.  In 2006, Mr. O'Meally was charged by the SEC in 2006 with fraud and negligence allegations.  Three co-defendants and Prudential Securities all settled charges brought by the SEC.  Mr. O'Meally refused to settle, and argued that his business practices were both fully appropriate and approved by Prudential Securities management and its in-house counsel.

The SEC asks us to affirm that O'Meally negligently performed an intentional act that is otherwise legal.  The evidence, however, establishes without contradiction that the [mutual] funds were inconsistent in their proscriptions on market timing and that Prudential supported O'Meally's practices – and that jury could not find negligence in those circumstances. . .

Mr. O'Meally states, "At trial, I told the judge and the jury that I had to fight this case, and would not settle, because it was important to let my children know that you have to fight and not give up when you are right.  Today, I was standing at my daughter's graduation ceremony from college, when I got the news that we had won.  There are no words to describe how I feel."

Mr. Frisch states: "Fred O'Meally cannot get back the 11 years he spent fighting the government, but he goes forward from today knowing the SEC's case was wrong from the start."

Mr. Harris states:   "I met Fred O'Meally 11 years ago, when he walked into a conference room at Curtis Mallet, where I was then practicing, to tell Peter Fleming Jr. and me about market timing. The facts Fred told me that day, are the same facts we told the SEC, they are the same facts that convinced a jury that Fred was innocent of any intentional wrongdoing, and are the same facts that convinced the Second Circuit to dismiss the entire case.  Fred has as big a heart  and is as tough as anyone you will ever meet. This is a great day for him, and for all of us who have worked on this case."

Andrew J. Frisch, a former federal prosecutor, has practiced in New York City's federal and state courts for thirty years, arguing over 100 appeals and trying over 25 cases to jury verdict.  He is renowned for devotion to his clients and determined advocacy in championing their causes through criminal and regulatory investigations, trials and appeals.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
