
Attorney General Eric Holder announced that a US grand jury has charged five Chinese hackers with economic espionage and trade secret theft.

WASHINGTON — The United States has brought first-of-its kind cyber-espionage charges against five Chinese military officials accused of hacking into U.S. companies to gain trade secrets.

According to the indictment announced Monday, hackers targeted the U.S. nuclear power, metals and solar products industries and are accused of stealing trade secrets and economic espionage. The alleged victims are Alcoa World Alumina, Westinghouse Electric Co., Allegheny Technologies, U.S. Steel Corp., United Steelworkers Union, and SolarWorld, Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.

No officials in China were available Monday night for comment.

The charges against the Chinese military officials come on the heels of a separate worldwide operation over the weekend that resulted in the arrest of 97 people in 16 countries who are suspected of developing, distributing or using malicious software called BlackShades, Holder said. The software allows criminals to gain surreptitious control of personal computers. An announcement on those arrests was expected for later Monday in New York.

‘‘These two cases show that we are stepping up our cyber enforcement efforts really around the globe,’’ Holder said, adding that the U.S. will not tolerate these activities.

U.S. officials have previously asserted that China’s army and China-based hackers had launched attacks on American industrial and military targets, often to steal secrets or intellectual property. China has said that it faces a major threat from hackers, and the country’s military is believed to be among the biggest targets of the NSA and U.S. Cyber Command.

‘‘It is our hope that the Chinese government will respect our criminal justice system,’’ Holder said.

The indictment will put a greater strain on the U.S.-China relationship.

In recent months, Washington has been increasingly critical of what it describes as provocative Chinese actions in pursuit of territorial claims in disputed seas in East Asia. For its part, Beijing complains that the Obama administration’s attempt to redirect its foreign policy toward Asia after a decade of war in the Middle East is emboldening China’s neighbors and causing tension.

The hackers allegedly stole emails and other communications that could have helped Chinese firms learn the strategies and weaknesses of American companies involved in litigation with the Chinese government or Chinese firms.

Despite the ominous-sounding allegations, at least one of the firms downplayed the hacking.

Last September, President Barack Obama discussed cybersecurity issues on the sidelines of a summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Associated Press reporters Matthew Pennington in Washington, Joe Mandak in Pittsburgh and Didi Tang in Beijing contributed to this story.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
