
Earthquake liability law can be confusing, so trust the team at the Law Offices of Burg & Brock, Inc. to provide essential legal aid.

LOS ANGELES, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Southern California is hailed as one of the most beautiful regions on Earth. However, along with that stellar reputation, Los Angeles and surrounding areas are known to present a number of risks, with earthquakes perhaps chief among them. While natural disasters can lead to a feeling of insecurity, residents find necessary solace in the work of Cameron Yadidi Brock and his team at the Law Offices of Burg & Brock, Inc. For over 15 years, Cameron Yadidi Brock has garnered impeccable results for clients – in fact, his team boasts a terrific 98% success rate. L.A. residents frequently look to Cameron Yadidi on YouTube for information related to personal injury, vehicle collision and many other legal specialties. As the many commendations on Cameron Yadidi's Facebook page attest, his team is dedicated to supporting those who need help the most – making them an invaluable asset for those who have suffered the effects of an earthquake.

Though we've already felt a number of sizable earthquakes this year, it's heartening to know that no earthquake has claimed a life since 2003. It was in December of that year that a magnitude 6.5 earthquake hit the Central Coast of California, leading to substantial devastation in the area's historic downtown area and the tragic death of two women. Falling bricks and plaster led to fatal injuries as the women ran out of an old building that housed a clothing store.

Rightfully, the families of the women sued the property owners, refuting their claim that the earthquake was an "act of God" – and that the building was in compliance with city building codes in order to avoid responsibility. Mr. Brock reminds the public that this faulty line of thinking often causes victims of tragedy to miss out on important financial awards that are due to them.

Fortunately – and wisely – a jury awarded the families nearly $2 million, concluding that the property owners were negligent for not making the building safe. John Nockleby, a professor at Loyola Law School, called the Paso Robles decision "profoundly important". Says Nockleby, "in an earthquake zone, if you have a building that is susceptible to falling down or collapsing, or serious damage, and you're aware that it requires retrofitting in order to withstand modest earthquakes, you could certainly be liable".

The average civilian in Los Angeles cannot be expected to fully understand the details of personal injury law, but they can benefit tremendously from the unparalleled legal knowledge of Cameron Y. Brock and his team at the Law Offices of Burg & Brock, Inc. The financial support provided by their clients through settlements and awards have proven to go a long way towards making a victim and their family whole again.

We can never know for sure when or where the next earthquake will strike, but thanks to the Law Offices of Burg & Brock, Inc., you can be certain that those affected will always have access to the best possible legal representation. To contact their remarkable legal team, please call the Law Offices of Burg & Brock, Inc. at 888-509-2998 or visit them on the web at www.legaldefenders.com . Free initial consultations are available.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
