
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) - A judge gave attorneys for Tennessee Titans' first-round draft pick Taylor Lewan another month Monday to investigate details surrounding an alleged assault that has a court case hanging over what should be a time devoted to settling in with his NFL team.

Lewan, a former offensive lineman at Michigan, was charged with one count of aggravated assault and two counts of assault and battery after a confrontation with two Ohio State fans after the Buckeyes beat the Wolverines last season. His attorney, John Shea, was granted a four-week delay of an arraignment to do "more investigation." The next scheduled hearing in Ann Arbor District Court is June 16.

Lewan was told to avoid using or possessing alcohol or illegal drugs and to not contact the alleged victims.

"We dispute that there are any victims in this matter," Lewan's attorney, John Shea, said in court. "But in the meantime, we will refrain from contacting."

The 22-year-old Lewan has said he breaking up a dispute and wasn't involved in a fight. After walking out of court, Lewan said he could not comment and allowed his attorney to speak on his behalf.

"We asked for it to be adjourned because we're following up," Shea said. "The police report itself is somewhat complicated. We're still familiarizing ourselves with it. We have additional investigation, which is standard in any case. Don't necessarily rely 100 percent on everything that the police have done before you. You always do more than that. So, that's what we're doing and we haven't had as much time to do it as we'd like."

Lewan had to be back in Ann Arbor, Michigan, after attending the Titans' three-day rookie minicamp. He missed out on his first opportunity to join veterans participating in the team's offseason program. The Titans declined comment on Monday.

Lewan, the No. 11 pick overall earlier this month, is expected to back up both new right tackle Michael Oher and veteran left tackle Michael Roos. Titans coach Ken Whisenhunt has said if Lewan earns the right to start as a rookie, he'll be on the field.

This site uses Facebook comments to make it easier for you to contribute.       If you see a comment you would like to flag for spam or abuse,       click the "x" in the upper right of it. By posting,       you agree to our Terms of Use .
