
A Greenwood massage parlor room where Danford Grant was alleged to have raped a masseuse. Pictured in a police photo.

The "bad man" who in every public way looked to be an upstanding, intelligent and constructive member of society, a lawyer and family man, was sentenced today to decades in prison for raping five women.

Seattle lawyer Danford Grant was sentenced to 25 years for raping multiple massage parlor workers in the Seattle area. The sentence -- exceptionally high according to the state's sentencing recommendations for the crimes -- had been agreed to ahead of today's hearing.

The Seattle lawyer and former city prosecutor attacked five different masseuses in massage parlors in Seattle, Shoreline and Bellevue in 2011 and 2012.

"They called you 'bad man'," Downing said just before sentencing Grant. They wondered "what to do if the 'bad man' comes back."

Grant pleaded guilty on May 9 to five counts of third-degree rape and one count of first-degree burglary.

He was initially charged with nine rape-related counts, but some counts were dropped after the defense determined some witnesses weren't forthcoming with investigators.

Grant was a founding partner at a Seattle law firm at the time of his September 2012 arrest.

He had a modus operandi in his attacks: He went to a Asian massage business run by Asians, often after calling from different phone numbers and using a fake name for his appointment. He was initially friendly as he entered the business and at the beginning of the massage. During the massage, he often lied about himself to bolster his stature, claiming he was a doctor or police or mentioning his position as a lawyer.

He also lied about his wife being dead and professed love for the masseuse or a desire to marry her or go out with her. He would go on to request a sexual service and when the masseuse denied him, he would attack her - sometimes at knifepoint - and rape or try to rape her.

Investigators also found that Grant researched massage businesses online -- including three of the four businesses where he attacked women in this case -- and looked into masseuses' personal information.

None of the victims appeared in court, but four of the five wrote letters (the husband of one victim wrote one of the letters) to the judge telling of the nightmare violence Grant committed against them, and the effects that violence is still having on their lives.

King County prosecuters had others read the letters in court.

I really wanted to be present during the court proceedings, but I did not have the courage to see this person again. When I saw him on the news on May 5th, my entire body trembled and I lost strength in all limbs.

After that incident I'm always nervous, scared, have panic attacks frequently, and I often have nightmares which sometimes [inaudible] me to be able to sleep at night. Sometimes when I walk down the street and see someone who resembles him I become very nervous and terrified because I'm not sure if that person might be him.

The women said the attack left them "fearful of those who look well-mannered ..."

I have chosen not to appear in court because in the Chinese culture it would cause more shame and embarrassment. Not only to me, but also to my family.  Maybe that's why the defendant had been picking on Asian victims who are more vulnerable and helpless. It has caused me physical and psychological injuries which are still affecting me every day regardless of weekends or holidays. I hope your honor will give him the stiffest punishment allowed by the law so he cannot hurt other minority women.

They asked that the court give Grant the harshest penalties partly because his attacks on them were centered on their preceived weakness as Asian women in the massage business.

The victims said Grant's attacks on them had shattered their lives. The husband of one victim wrote of seeing his wife on the floor of their home "in a fetal position" in the aftermath of the attack.

I'm Chinese and I don't speak much English. I do not have any family members in the US. I have attended vocational school training after completing high school in China. Because of my language barrier and my burden to support my family in China, I have been working in the massage business. I came to U.S. for freedom and human rights. I just work hard to make a living. I cannot imagine a lawyer with plans to prey on weak Asian women. When he attacked me he suddenly took a knife to threaten my life. Then he intruded into my body. ... I have problems sleeping for several months. I have nightmares after nightmares all night long. I am always suffering from anxiety, any sudden noise will make my whole body shivering for hours.

Defense lawyers said Grant's life was the image of a "life carreening out of control," the product of a "troubled childhood," past alcohol addiction and "severe emotional problems." His lawyer said Grant pled guilty partly so his victims wouldn't have to come to court.

He admitted doing wrong. "I am responsible and should be punished," he told the judge.

"Although, the truth about what I did is dramatically different from what was alleged, I do not minimize my real wrongs and my apology for those particular wrongs is genuine and heartfelt."

Grant didn't elaborate on those differences. He said "what happened was an aberration" and didn't represent his entire life.

"A convergence of troubling events led me to quit, or even give up for a time, and mistreat several people," he said.

He then read through a long section detailing his past problems, friendship with women, his empathy and experience with women who had suffered sexual abuse. He even said he'd had "positive interaction with others in this often tragic world of commercial sex."

His letter was written around the theme of the "tragic irony" of his life as someone who achieved so much and yet threw it away in these violent acts. He sniffed and his voice wavered for the first time when quoting from a journal entry he'd written in his 20s about his problems.

"And now here I stand as a convicted sex offender."

He told the judge that he would come out of prison changed -- "I can assure the court that I will never repeat my conduct" -- and that he has a history of recovery.

"Finally," he said choking up slightly again, "for all those who suffer from addiction, I implore you to address your underlying emotional issues so you do not risk having your lives follow the tragic pattern of my own."

In additon to stalking his victims through research, Grant also looked at a rape scene website and searched massage sections of Backpage.com and Craigslist, according to court documents.

In June 2012, Grant reportedly followed a masseuse back to her car after receiving a massage on Roosevelt Way in Seattle. He ordered her into her car and drove her somewhere before raping her in the back seat, a prosecutors' memo says.

In August 2012, Grant made an appointment under a false name at a Lake City Way business where he previously attempted to rape a masseuse in 2011, according to reports.

When he arrived, the masseuse refused to let him enter, but Grant broke the chain lock and forced his way inside. He threatened the masseuse and raped her.

Nine days later, Grant reportedly went to a business in Bellevue where he also tried to attack the masseuse in 2012.

He made an appointment under a bogus name and, at the spa, recited to his masseuse her full name, her husband's name and her home address. His massage was underway before the masseuse realized her client was the man who tried to assault her before.

When she threatened to call the police and tried to yell for help, Grant slapped her, pulled her hair and raped her after threatening her with a knife. He told her he loved her and wanted to marry her.

Investigators claim Grant raped a masseuse at knifepoint at a Greenwood spa in September 2012. Prosecutors had alleged he  did so again on Sept. 24, the day he was arrested.

That time, the parlor owner and others arrived as Grant was  leaving. A struggle followed, and police arrived to find Grant two  blocks from the parlor, located in the 600 block of Northwest  85th Street.

Grant's car was parked nearby when he was arrested but was later moved by his wife, a former prosecutor with the city of Seattle.  When police searched the SUV, detectives seized Cialis pills and an empty knife sheath.

A knife was never recovered during the investigation of the case, but investigators believe the knife sheath was consistent with the size of the folding knife described by victims.

Grant claimed through his defense that he paid for consensual sex with the masseuses. He argued that one massage parlor's concealment of surveillance footage supported this testament.

The massage parlor owner since admitted she had installed hidden  cameras in the massage rooms, but told investigators she didn't notify  police because she thought the cameras might be illegal.

Grant previously denied the allegations and described himself as a dutiful husband and father. He and his wife have three children.

Mary Ellen Stone, executive director of the King County Sexual Assault Resource center based in Renton, said that in addition to the vulnerability characteristic of all sexual assault victims, Grant's victims were especially so because they were immigrants and not fluent in English.

Cultural attitudes surrounding sex also made it difficult for them to report Grant's attacks to police. One victim called her husband and told him she was attacked at knifepoint, but couldn't bring herself to mention she was raped.

"It was likely that the Grant victims faced even more hesitation due to Grant's prestige, their own language barriers, cultural differences, and fear of deportation," Stone said in a statement. "Their willingness potentially to face this man in trial is heroic."

An estimated one in three rape victims reports an attack to police - and that's a generous estimate, Stone said.

"If we want people to come foward, we've got to create a culture that encourages victims to come forward," she said.

Stone added that the prosecutors made a plea agreement with Grant instead of putting the victims through an emotionally traumatic trial.

"I am pleased that there was an agreement so this case can be closed and the victims can move on with their lives," she said.

Seattlepi.com news intern Evan Pappas contributed to this story.
