
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Republican lawmakers accused the Obama administration Monday of overreach in its stringent scrutiny of industries it considers “high risk,” saying legislation may be needed to rein in a regulation regime that has targeted gun retailers, who complain that federal action is limiting their access to banks and squeezing them out of business.

Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer , Missouri Republican and vice chairman of the House Committee on Small Business, noted that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . has directed banks to apply extra scrutiny to “high risk” businesses — such as gun sellers, pornography shops and drug paraphernalia stores — that use payment processors such as PayPal for credit card transactions.

“If the regulators continue down this path of picking entire industries rather than an individual bad actor, everything is on the table, including legislation,” said Mr. Luetkemeyer , who has pressed the Justice Department and the FDIC to allow some banks to serve legitimate businesses on the “high risk” list.

Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, compared the Obama administration ’s close monitoring of legal industries, such as gun manufacturing, to its loose enforcement of drug laws — particularly in Washington state and Colorado, both of which have legalized the recreational use of pot.

“Apparently, the Obama administration sees businesses that serve Americans who exercise their Second Amendment rights as ‘high risk’ but not businesses that violate federal law by selling marijuana,” Mr. Grassley said. “Obama’s banking regulators turn a blind eye to those businesses because a few state laws allow the recreational use of marijuana, but then they try to force legitimate industries out of business through regulatory intimidation.

The Washington Times reported Monday about gun manufacturers and sellers who have complained that federal regulations and investigations have threatened their legitimate businesses with insolvency.

A key part of the federal effort is the Justice Department ’s Operation Choke Point, a credit card fraud probe focusing on banks and payment processors. The threat of enforcement has prompted some banks to cut ties with online gun retailers, even if those companies have valid licenses and good credit histories.

Former FDIC Chairman William Isaac also had pointed criticism of the administration ’s regulatory practices.

• T.R. Liberti, owner and operator of Top Gun Firearms Training & Supply in Miami, has felt the sting firsthand. Last month, his local bank, BankUnited N.A., dumped his business from its service.
