
Scientists have created a machine with the potential to read our dreams while we sleep.

Researchers in the US say it is so powerful that it can extract images from people’s brains and display them on a screen.

The data from the brain scanner has already been used to detect and reconstruct images of faces that people are thinking of.

Researchers believe the same technology could be used in the future to enable them to reconstruct images from people’s memories, imagination and dreams.

It could also possibly be used to collect images of criminals from the minds of witnesses.

Alan Cowen, a neuroscientist at the University of California, Berkeley, said: ‘Our methods yield strikingly accurate neural reconstructions of faces.

When they had compiled a database of responses, they showed the volunteers a new set of faces and measured their reaction to each image.

By comparing the second responses to the database, they were able to reconstruct the image they were looking at.

The research is based on a theory that all human processes have a ‘neural correlate’ and that thoughts and feelings are merely a complex pattern of chemical reactions.

Some neuroscientists believe there is the potential to read such patterns if they can only build sensitive enough instruments.

Mr Cowen and his fellow researchers, Brice Kuhl of New York University and Professor Marvin Chun of Yale, believe that extracting facial images is the first step towards eventually producing advanced mind-reading technology.

Mr Kuhl said: ‘I study memory, and it’s hard not to be excited by the prospect of being able to reconstruct the images that we bring to mind when we remember something.

Mr Cowen assured the public that the technology did not enable them to forcibly extract information from subjects, however.

He told Fox News: ‘This sort of technology can only read active parts of the brain. So you couldn’t read passive memories – you would have to get the person to imagine the memory to read it.

of the brain.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
