
Julián Castro, the young and charismatic mayor of San Antonio, is said to be taking over the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

The New York Times reported this weekend that San Antonio mayor Julián Castro , perhaps best known for his speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention, will leave San Antonio to become President Obama's secretary of housing and urban development.

Castro has big shoes to fill.

Housing and Urban Development is responsible for providing affordable housing in the U.S., including overseeing public housing. Donovan, who has held the top position there since the beginning of Obama's first term, took a major role in the response to Hurricane Sandy. He also launched an initiative to build and improve neighborhoods around public housing as well as transportation connecting public housing to other communities. Donovan is a favorite of the president, the Times reports, leaving big shoes for Castro to fill.

Castro has presided over the growth of a city some might be surprised to learn is now the seventh largest in the country (it's poised to take over the sixth spot from Philadelphia in the near future) and has led efforts to turn HemisFair Park , the site of the 1968 World's Fair, into a massive public park.

Castro has previously spurned invitations to join Obama's cabinet, but HUD may hold more temptation for him. His personal narrative includes a frequently mentioned fourth grade-educated grandmother who emigrated from Mexico, and the remarkable achievement his family has shown in a mere two generations (Castro's twin brother, Joaquin, is a Democratic congressman representing Texas's 20th district). His efforts as mayor have focused on bringing San Antonio, a relatively thriving city that weathered the recession better than most, attention as a national city, but the HUD secretary job would allow him to focus on poverty nationwide.

Thanks for stopping by Fast Company’s Co.Design. Our focus is on highlighting the world’s best examples of design and innovation, working in concert. We started this site with a few simple premises in mind. First, design is a window onto the world at large, and the culture we live in. Designers create objects that meet some unrecognized need. All businesses strive to do the same thing.
