
NEW YORK — Italy may not seem like the ideal place for a Domino’s Pizza shop, but the man who heads the American chain remains optimistic about the possibility.

Despite the skepticism Domino’s might initially encounter, CEO Patrick Doyle says that the chain’s delivery model may give it an advantage in Italy.

Italy aside, Domino’s, which is based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, has been enjoying strong sales growth overseas and boasts nearly 6,000 international locations.

Back at home, where it has 5,000 locations, Domino’s has been trying to improve the image of its pizza, which has long been plagued by a reputation for tasting generic and manufactured.

After several years of declines, sales have turned positive. Now, the company is in the process of rolling out new store designs that highlight the pizza-making process.

Looking ahead, Wall Street analysts expect Domino’s and other national pizza chains, including Papa John’s, to take market share away from smaller chains and independent players.

A: I think there is room for improvement, but clearly people’s impressions of Domino’s have improved.

Q: Tell us about the new “pizza theater” store design that you’re in the process of rolling out.

A: When you walk into the stores, the kitchen is going to be open, the walls are going to be gone and you’re going to be able to watch the process of your pizza or somebody else’s pizza being made. We realized customers want to see the food. They want to see how it’s being prepared. The fact that we’re starting from a fresh dough ball is powerful for the consumer.

A: The wonderful thing about pizza is that it adapts incredibly easily to different tastes. The bread, the sauce and the cheese works fundamentally everywhere. Then we top it differently around the world.

A: We’re looking at it. But you’ll see other markets open before you’ll see Italy.

A: Interestingly, pan pizza and thin crust pizza do better down the center of the U.S. Everybody eats more hand-tossed pizza than anything else. But it’s particularly stronger on both coasts.
