
The government freezes the assets of former chief justice Corona of P160 Million just like that;  but — the BIR does not conduct a lifestyle check or whatever kind of check on the assets of senators and congressmen whose names are mentioned in the Napoles list, to check if their millions or billions in their bank accounts would commensurate or match to their actual declared source of income.

Of course the BIR and the government has all the prerogatives to choose their economic weapons of mass destruction on any taxpayer whose faces they don’t like.

Maybe BIR Henares  does not like Pacquiao without a shave, that is why she slapped him with billions of taxes even without investigation?  So why doesn’t she do the same on crook-pork-barrel-scammer legislators? Di ba double standard kini? Or tripple pa gani.

Yes, this is justice …..and it has a double standard. One for their friends, and one for their political if not personal enemies.   Justice, huh.

How about you, what kind of justice do you have?  One that interests you, and the other, one that would destroy your personal enemies.  Hayyy, Justice.

RAM military strategist Col. Rex Robles, is right. Americans should develop and build their “Philippine bases” in Mindanao, not in Luzon.

First, Luzon,  where Manila  is,  is the seat of power. Manila would be a sitting duck on the Chinese or north Korean missles in case of war.

Of course we still have big, almost emty bases in Fort Magsaysay  or Fort Zambales in Luzon. They are also big. But an American outpost in Philippine bases in Mindanao is the better ideal.   If not, Tambobo, Siaton, lagi. The best!

If an American intel reads this, he better visit Tambobo bay, and he will not have second thoughts.  Just imagine, it was the American’s first choice over Subic in the past. Adtoa ra gud na doy.

Mindanao has many safe havens for naval bases, like in Gen Santos where it is like a subic bay in the south. Or they can choose Tambobo bay in Siaton, where subic naval base of the U.S. has in fact been originally eyed by Americans long time ago, if not for the objection of the late Rep. Lamberto Macias, the father of Dodo.

Again, the basic question is:  whose interest is one serving?  Of course for Filipinos, our Phlippine interest. But for  the Americans, they  say: of course, our American interests.

But American hands are tied by China because most, if not all, of American goods are now made in China.

Talkiing about interests, whose interest are honky tonks to reopen when the Americans are here again? The Philippines, or Americans?  Why doesn’t Congress legislate and ban honky tonks in places where there are Americans if only to preserve Filipino values on morality? The Church can play an active role here, in line with their drive against the RH law.   We are sure it will be availed of by Amercians once they are here.

Like the Arabs, Americans have now become lazy, after they won the last world war.  So they let poorer nations with idle people  like China, make their goods, from appliances to simple footware, it’s now all made in China, of course with American standard.  So who can fight China when even the American hands are already tied by China with economic blackmail.

We are not anti-Americans at all. All of us have relatives in America. None in China. But like Rome of old, which was the seat of world power, it will soon fade away in time. This is the inevitable law for geophysics. What goes up, goes down.  And those who are down now, have no other way to go but up. That’s China for you. Such is the law of nature. You cannot fight that, Mr Don Quixote.
