
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

1 Kerry speaks: Secretary of State John Kerry urged Yale University graduates Sunday to keep faith in government's ability to break gridlock, even as many problems remain unsolved. Kerry, a 1966 graduate of Yale, told students and their families, faculty, and staff at the Ivy League school's 313th commencement to remain hopeful and be active participants in finding ways to bring about change. "None of our problems are without solutions, but neither will they solve themselves," he said.

2 Publisher diagnosed: Billionaire media mogul Richard Mellon Scaife says he has an untreatable form of cancer. Scaife is the publisher of the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review and owner of Trib Total Media . He said in a column published Sunday that he learned of his diagnosis recently. The 81-year-old Scaife is an heir to the Mellon banking fortune and is a notable backer of conservative causes. He serves as the vice chairman of the board of the Heritage Foundation .

3 Mother, child reunite: Authorities say a Florida woman has been joyfully reunited with her daughter who went missing nearly five years ago, after the girl was found with her father in Mexico. The Volusia County Sheriff's Office said Jodie Borchert of Deltona was reunited Saturday with her 12-year-old daughter in Miami, where the girl was transported after being located in Hidalgo, Mexico. Authorities say the child's father, 55-year-old Aaron Cox , fled with the girl in August 2009. They say Cox has been arrested and is being held in Miami.

4 Theater evacuated: Authorities say someone set off two soda bottle chemical devices at a movie theater complex in northern Virginia, frightening patrons who fled after hearing what sounded like firecrackers or gunshots. Fairfax County police spokeswoman Lucy Caldwell says no one was hurt though the theater and food court were evacuated of about 2,000 people early Sunday.

5 Suit dismissed: A federal judge in Newark, N.J., has dismissed a $50 million lawsuit brought by members of the Ramapough tribe against the makers of the 2013 movie "Out of the Furnace." The lawsuit claimed that unsavory characters in the film had last names that are common among the Ramapough and that it perpetuated negative and unfounded stereotypes.

6 No Twain name: A state panel has effectively killed a bid to name a Lake Tahoe cove for Mark Twain , citing opposition from a tribe that claims he held racist views of American Indians. The Nevada State Board on Geographic Names this week voted to indefinitely table the request after hearing opposition from the Washoe Tribe of Nevada and California, whose ancestral homeland includes Tahoe. Tribal representative Darrel Cruz says Twain is undeserving of the honor, because he made derogatory comments about the Washoe and other tribes in his literature. Twain assumed his pen name as a Nevada newspaper reporter in the 1860s and wrote adoringly of Tahoe.

Was Lena Dunham's big pink puff the absolute worst? Take a look.
