
The public is invited to help place flags at the cemetery at 9 a.m. Saturday, May 24.

Merrill Weikum thinks about his step-son all the time. A month never goes by that he doesn’t place a flag or flowers on his grave at the Oregon Trail State Veterans Cemetery, he said. He talks to the man he raised and tells him he misses him.

Capt. Robert Lucero was going to open a hunting and fishing guide business with llamas, Weikum said. So he started looking for some llamas while Lucero served in Operation Iraqi Freedom with the Wyoming Army National Guard. Lucero had planned a career as an environmental engineer. He also had hoped to start a family with his wife when he returned, Weikum said.

Lucero was killed in an explosion in Tikrit, Iraq, Sept. 25, 2003.

Weikum said he knew, even before he got the call. When his daughter-in-law didn’t arrive to drop off her dogs before a planned vacation, he just had a feeling, he said. The nearly 11 years gone by hasn’t lessened the grief, Weikum said.

“Life is definitely different without him,” Weikum said.

He attends the Memorial Day services each year at the veterans cemetery, of which he’s a board member. May 26 will be the 10th Memorial Day since Lucero died.

“Unfortunately, I don’t believe the general population has a real, solid understanding of the sacrifices that were made to keep this country free so they can enjoy their picnics on Memorial Day,” Weikum said.

He doesn’t have a problem with such festivities; he just hopes people pause to remember those through history who’ve given their lives for their county, he said.

Lucero’s parents said they take comfort in knowing their son passionately believed in serving his country.

He pursued a military future since he was young, and he came from a military family, Wright said. Weikum served in the U.S. Navy in Vietnam. Lucero’s father, who died in a car accident when Lucero was 8, also had served in the U.S. Navy. So had his maternal grandfather, Wright said.

Lucero participated in Junior ROTC for four years at Natrona County High School and joined the U.S. Army after he graduated in 1986.

Next Lucero went into the U.S. Army National Guard. He also attended Casper College, then earned his environmental science degree at Colorado Mesa University before moving back to Casper. He asked to serve in Iraq and signed up for a unit that shipped out soon after, in early 2003.

“He basically deployed himself,” Wright said.

Weikum can still picture his step-son at 9, sitting by the Pathfinder bank fishing on a snowy spring day. Weikum kept returning to the truck to warm up with coffee. But the boy wouldn’t leave his pole, and he caught all the fish that bit his line that day, Weikum said. He always showed that kind of dedication for everything he did, Weikum said.

Lucero went on hunting trips even before he could walk, Weikum said. He hunted his first buck at 14. It fell into a gully so narrow it took an hour for the two to inch the wedged deer to a space wide enough to lay it on the ground, Weikum said. Lucero was always game for whatever adventures arose, he added.

Wright said he’d drop his books after school almost every day and hurry off with a fishing pole and some of his many friends.

He always made friends easily. Still, she was astonished after his death by the many people she’d never met who knew him. They often described hunting or fishing with him, or one of the times he made them laugh, she said.

He liked to tease people in a fun way, especially when he figured out their weakness, Wright said. One of hers is a fear of snakes. So he once used rattlesnakes he’d just hunted to spell the word “snake” in front of her house, she said.

Weikum said people young and old enjoyed Lucero’s company. He knows his granddaughters, 3 and 6, would think he’s “the neatest person to ever walk the earth,” Weikum said. He tells them about their uncle, and sometimes brings them to the cemetery with him, he said.

Copyright 2014 CasperJournal.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Working from a bucket suspended from above, construction workers demolished a chimney at NCHS brick by brick Aug. 23.

Username & Password Required!
