
BAGHDAD (AP) — A coalition led by Iraq's Shiite prime minister emerged today as the biggest winner in the country's first parliamentary elections since the U.S. military withdrawal in 2011, electoral officials said, as the embattled premier is seeking a third term in office despite political turmoil and rising violence.

The results boost Nouri al-Maliki's chances for a new term, though he still needs to approach other groups to secure a broader majority coalition inside parliament.

BAGHDAD (AP) — A coalition led by Iraq's Shiite prime minister emerged today as the biggest winner in the country's first parliamentary elections since the U.S. military withdrawal in 2011, electoral officials said, as the embattled premier is seeking a third term in office despite political turmoil and rising violence.

The results boost Nouri al-Maliki's chances for a new term, though he still needs to approach other groups to secure a broader majority coalition inside parliament.

The parliamentary election was the third since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that removed dictator Saddam Hussein's Sunni-led regime and brought the long-oppressed Shiite majority to power. It came at a perilous moment for Iraq, with the country sinking back into a brutal cycle of bloodshed that claimed more than 8,800 lives last year alone.

The resurgence of sectarian violence, which nearly tore Iraq apart in 2006 and 2007, is being fueled both by deep-seated divisions within Iraq and the three-year-old civil war in neighboring Syria.

More than 9,000 candidates from across Iraq vied for the parliament's 328 seats in the April 30 election. Electoral officials reported that 62 percent of the 22 million eligible voters cast ballots.

The results released today by the Independent High Electoral Commission showed that al-Maliki's State of Law gained 92 seats, winning the top spot in 10 of 18 provinces. He would need to build support from a total of 165 seats to have a shot at keeping the prime minister's post.

Shiite cleric Ammar al-Hakim's al-Muwatin bloc was second with 29 seats, followed by firebrand Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr's main al-Ahrar bloc with 28 seats.

Come see us for all of your automotive needs...Since 1963!
