
The problem, Janodet noted, was conceptual. The main need, he said, was to "develop new ideas in old domains." He argued that the industry needs to find goods analogues for fields and outcrops, develop better seismic acquisition equipment, and learn how to safely drill in environmentally sensitive areas.

As a result of a more aggressive exploration strategy, Total has recently entered many large blocks in new countries around the globe, often in frontier areas.

These new plays, with complex geologies in challenging environments, have led to new strategies and technological adaptations on the way geophysical surveys are designed, acquired, processed, and interpreted thanks to new contractors, acquisitions, developments and in-house R&D processing and interpretation achievements.

Janodet examined a number of relatively untapped geological structures, including shallow-tilted, three-way-dip blocks in rift systems (Uganda); reefal structures in presalt carbonates (Angola); centrifugal hydrodynamism trapping in large deltas (Azerbaijan); and complex thrust structures in the foothills of Bolivia.

With regard to presalt exploration, Janodet said that the key technical challenges will include subsalt imaging, sedimentary models, and formation evaluation.

The industry also needs to develop "new ideas in new basins," and cited the discovery of the Jubilee field offshore Ghana as an excellent find in an abrupt margin – another type of geologic structure that bears additional investigation. In these newer basins, he said that the key technical challenges will include trap definition, reservoir modeling, and generative system efficiency.

Large deltas are coming back as attractive geologic structures, and new ideas are enabling companies with these structures to renew development. Janodet cited the Caspian Sea off Azerbaijan as an example. The area has an "elephant-size" gas/condensate discovery, but within a deep reservoir that will require new pressure management concepts.

Technology will be a key to frontier exploration, including remote sensing and other non-seismic methods. Seismic acquisition and imaging technologies will continue to be important, as will formation evaluation techniques. Following that, the industry will need to deploy the latest reservoir productivity maintenance methods.

Another key area will be seismic data processing, and the challenge of imaging complex horizons. The industry will need to develop appropriate computing power as it moves from narrow azimuth to wide azimuth, from narrow to broadband, and from short to long offsets.

Technology will help, but it will be important for the industry to understand that the technology must be acceptable to surrounding and local communities. Here, the industry must seek to reduce its footprint, and technologies such as cableless seisimic equipment can help do that.

Global subsea hardware capex could total $117 billion between 2014 and 2018, according to Douglas-Westwood’s latest market forecast.

Aker Solutions has secured a framework agreement to provide engineering, modifications, and maintenance services for BP-operated oil and gas fields offshore Norway.

Carnarvon Petroleum Ltd. has been awarded two contiguous blocks on the eastern flank of the prolific oil producing Barrow sub-basin: Petroleum Exploration Permit EP-490 (bid block L11-6) and TP/27 (bid block T11-3) offshore Western Australia. Carnarvon is the operator and 100% working interest holder in these blocks, which cover a total area of 675 square miles (1,750 square kilometers).

Global subsea hardware capex could total $117 billion between 2014 and 2018, according to Douglas-Westwood’s latest market forecast.

Seadrill Ltd. has secured a contract with Total Upstream Nigeria Ltd. for employment of the newbuild ultra-deepwater drillship West Jupiter, in support of the EGINA ultra-deep offshore project in Nigeria.

Aker Solutions has secured a framework agreement to provide engineering, modifications, and maintenance services for BP-operated oil and gas fields offshore Norway.

Please fill out the remaining fields to complete your registration.

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instructions via email.

An email has been sent to .

Please follow the instructions in the email to change your password.

Your account has been created and you are now logged in.

It looks like you've already registered with .  Please login below to link your accounts.

Thank you for registering.  An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.

The specified email address, , needs to be verified in order to login.

An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
