
Washington - The United States has come to an agreement allowing it to share some intelligence with Nigeria to bolster the search for more than 200 girls kidnapped by Islamist rebel group Boko Haram, the Pentagon said on Monday.

The US military is flying manned and unmanned surveillance aircraft over Nigeria, but had been unable to directly share intelligence with Abuja because it had not established protocols with the government.

Pentagon spokesperson Colonel Steve Warren said that agreement was struck over the weekend.

"We have finalized an agreement with the Nigerians to share intelligence with them - specifically intelligence relating to the kidnapped girls," Warren told reporters.

While the agreement would allow the US military to share some intelligence - including aerial imagery - with Nigeria, it did not mean that all raw US intelligence gathered could be shared, Warren added.

The Pentagon's announcement follows a meeting in Paris over the weekend where West African leaders agreed to work together to combat Boko Haram, saying the group had become a shared threat.

Boko Haram has killed more than 3 000 people in its war to establish an Islamic state in mostly Muslim northeast Nigeria.

Nigeria's neighbours Chad, Cameroon, Niger and Benin, and Western officials, met in Paris to flesh out a plan enabling them for the first time to share intelligence, coordinate action and monitor borders.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
