
The thugs who mugged an international ballet star as he walked through a park before a performance at Salford’s Lowry Theatre have admitted robbery.

Dominic Antonucci needed surgery to repair a damaged retina after his bruising ordeal in nearby Ordsall Park at 11am on February 1, shortly before a matinee performance of The Prince of the Pagoda.

Now three men have admitted robbing the dancer of his suitcase - and a postman of his mail - during a broad daylight spree.

William Clifford Paine, 22, of Asgard Drive, and Liam Johnson, 18, of Chancel Avenue, both Salford and a 17-year-old boy who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to two charges of robbery at a Manchester Crown Court .

Their case has been adjourned until July 16 to allow for the preparation of pre-sentence reports, and they remain on bail.

The trio were arrested separately after fleeing the scene of the attack, which was seen by witnesses.

Mr Antonucci was on tour with the Birmingham Royal Ballet where he is ballet master, when he was robbed. He became a household name in the world of dance after progressing through the ranks at Birmingham Royal Ballet, dancing in roles including Drosselmeyer and The Prince in The Nutcracker.

A popular member of the company, he was promoted to the role of principal in 2003 and six years later was appointed ballet master.

Ohio-born Mr Antonucci required extensive hospital treatment to remove a scratch on his cornea.

The 40-year-old also suffered serious neck and head injuries as well as a broken nose and was forced to take two months off work.

Speaking to the MEN after the court case, he said he felt no hatred towards his attackers.

“As someone whose worked in pretty rough schools teaching dance I feel for them and I hope they can get themselves sorted out. I don’t have any feelings of revenge, I just hope they get sorted out. I’m just pleased there’s no lasting effects and I’m back at work.

“It was a sickening attack and I’m thrilled it’s all over, I really am.

“It saved a lot of trouble and heartache for everyone that they all pleaded guilty. That was a big comfort.

The father-of-one, who lives in Birmingham, added: “My daughter is 15 and she was very upset to see my injuries and what happened. We’re just relieved it’s over and we can move on with our lives. It was a traumatic experience.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
