
The battle is joined over a state law that Gov. Rick Scott has used to shield changes in his investment portfolio.

The Legislature Monday entered a legal fight over the state's blind trust law, said opponents have not established "any basis" for court action and asked the Florida Supreme Court to dismiss the lawsuit or refer it to a lower court.

The action follows the filing of an emergency petition filed last week by Jim Apthorp, a former chief of staff to the late Gov. Reubin Askew, who claimed that a blind trust violates the 1976 Sunshine Amendment to the Constitution that Askew championed. The only official with a blind trust is Scott, who created one in 2011, with the approval of the Commission on Ethics, claiming he did so to prevent a conflict of interest in cases where his actions could affect companies in which he held a financial interest. Apthorp and his attorneys want emergency action because June 16 marks the start of the week-long qualifying period when Scott and hundreds of other candidates must disclose their financial assets and liabilities.

In a friend-of-the-court brief, attorneys for the Senate and House said the blind trust law does not violate the Sunshine Amendment's requirement of "full and public disclosure, because an official who creates a trust must submit a list of all assets to the Commission on Ethics and file a financial disclosure form that lists the total value of the trust's assets. The brief also assets that under the Constitution, the Legislature has the authority to define "full and public disclosure."

"A public official reports a qualified blind trust in the same manner as he or she would report a mutual fund: the asset is identified and its overall value is disclosed, but the individual stocks, bonds or other financial instruments contained within the mutual fund are not reported and the income from those holdings is not disclosed," the brief said.

The Legislature further argued that because a qualified blind trust shields a public official from knowledge of its holdings it "eliminates the potential for a conflict of interest between public duties and private interests and enhances public confidence in Florida's elected officials." The legal brief also said that contrary to Apthorp's claim, Secretary of State Ken Detzner, the state's chief elections officer, has no legal authority to refuse to accept qualifying papers of a candidate who seeks to file a blind trust. The brief cited several cases that Detzner's office provides a ministerial duty in accepting candidates' papers.

Senate counsel George Levesque and House counsel Daniel Nordby also told the state's high court that the petition by attorneys Talbot (Sandy) D'Alemberte and Patsy Palmer "is simply wrong." Their lawsuit asserted that an official can create a blind trust "instead of" filing a financial disclosure statement, but legislative lawyers said the value of the blind trust must be reported on the official's financial disclosure form.

For Florida political news today, the Buzz is your can't-miss-it source. Tampa Bay Times writers offer the latest in Florida politics, the Florida Legislature and the Rick Scott administration. Keep in mind: This is a public forum sponsored and maintained by the Tampa Bay Times. When you post comments here, what you say becomes public and could appear in the newspaper. You are not engaging in private communication with candidates or Times staffers.
