
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to columbustelegram.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

We live in a time of tremendous volatility around the world. In some countries today, many families wouldn’t dream of leaving their houses for fear of falling victim to violence. In other countries, many families wouldn’t dream of returning to their homes because violence has driven them away. How fortunate we are as Americans to come and go as we please, with hardly a thought about our safety and freedom. This Memorial Day, we must remember the gift that has been given to us by the men and women who died to ensure you and I could leave our homes and return to them without fear.

 Memorial Day is a time to honor all Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice by giving their lives for our freedom. Their resolve to defend our country no matter what and put service before self is the ultimate portrayal of American patriotism. Their courage and bravery can never be fully repaid, just as their actions in the name of freedom must never be forgotten. I encourage you to attend a local Memorial Day ceremony honoring these heroes.

 May is also Military Appreciation Month, an opportunity to recognize all of our armed forces. As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs committee, I take seriously our duty to care for those who have bravely worn the uniform.

 They aren’t the only ones who have sacrificed. Their families have also shown tremendous patriotism by supporting their loved ones’ service to our country. Gold Star Pins, worn by surviving family members of fallen soldiers, honor their sacrifice. The U.S. Army has created a resource, www.goldstarpins.org, to learn more about what the gold star represents and how you can support the loved ones of those who never made it home.

 One way my office has been honoring our heroes in Nebraska is through the Veterans History Project. It involves interviewing wartime veterans to forever preserve their oral histories within the Library of Congress. My staff often conducts these interviews or helps to connect veterans who want to share their experiences with interviewers willing to record these important stories for the history books.

 We are partnering with an organization called Story Corps this summer to preserve and help share stories of post-9/11 veterans and their loved ones. I encourage those interested in learning more about these efforts to contact my Omaha office at (402)758-8981.

 This month, we also recognize heroes wearing a different uniform. Last week was National Police Week, a time dedicated to those who put their lives on the line to ensure our safety here at home. Law enforcement officers take significant risks to protect and serve our state, counties and communities. They are deserving of our gratitude. We must also never forget the heroes here at home who have lost their lives while maintaining our peace and security. It is our duty to show our appreciation and support to the families who must carry the burden of their loss.

 It can be easy to get wrapped up in our own busy schedules amidst graduations, planting season, holiday picnics and the official kickoff of summer. But, we must not forget that all of these activities are possible because we are free and confident in our fundamental security. Thus, we are forever indebted to the men and women in uniform, who have sacrificed everything to give us the gift of freedom and security. God bless them and God Bless America this Memorial Day.

Copyright 2014 Columbus Telegram. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
