
United States Steel Corp. CEO Mario Longhi and Leo Gerard, international president of the United Steelworkers, discuss the challenges the steel industry is facing due to unregulated foreign imports of tubular products at U.S. Steel’s Irvin Works in West Mifflin. In July, U.S. Steel and other domestic steel manufacturers filed a petition with the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission to seek antidumping relief. U.S. Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker said about 75 percent of the Commerce Department’s total ongoing trade remedy investigations are steel-related.

U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker visited United States Steel Corp.'s Irvin Works Thursday to tour the facility's hot strip mill and cold reduction mill. She was led through the operation by U.S. Steel CEO Mario Longhi, Plant Manager Amy Smith-Yoder and USW International President Leo Gerard.

United States Steel Corp., United Steelworkers and the Alliance for American Manufacturing will host a rally Monday at U.S. Steel's research and technology center in Munhall to raise awareness for unregulated imports threatening the domestic steel industry.

In July, a consortium of steel producers, including U.S. Steel (NYSE: X) filed a petition with the Department of Commerce and International Trade Commission seeking antidumping relief on certain oil country tubular good which domestic steelmakers contend have been flooding the market with undervalued pipe.

In the first two months of 2014, finished steel imports have increased by an additional 15 percent, capturing 25 percent of the market, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute.

In February, the Department of Commerce issued a preliminary ruling, rejecting the claim that South Korea is selling steel tubing into the U.S. below market cost.

Testifying in front of the Congressional Steel Caucus in March, U.S. Steel CEO Mario Longhi said if the U.S. does not take action to level the playing field, it risks losing thousands of industry jobs.

Speakers at the rally, which will kick off at 11 a.m., will include Longhi, USW International President Leo Gerard , Sen. Bob Casey , Rep. Tim Murphy and Rep. Mike Doyle .

Justine Coyne covers manufacturing and higher education.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Morning Edition: A look at the day's business stories from media outlets around Pittsburgh.
