
HOUSTON, May 19 (UPI) -- A high-school student in Houston was found dead in a hotel the day after attending her senior prom.

Police responded to a call Saturday from Jacqueline Gomez's boyfriend, who said the 17-year-old had stopped breathing.

Police arrived to find alcohol in the hotel room and suspect prescription painkillers were also part of the party, but have yet to determine Gomez's cause of death.

"You can imagine if you have ever attended a high school prom what goes on there," said homicide detective Mike Miller . "This is no exception."

Police took Gomez's boyfriend into custody, but are not treating him as criminal suspect.

"He was there. He knows everything, so we're just continually wanting to find out what happened and everything," Miller told local reporters. "At this point, [Gomez's boyfriend] is being completely honest with us and we have no reason to believe that he at all contributed to this death."

Gomez would have graduated in June.

Follow @mckb26 and @UPI on Twitter.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
