
Dr. Gregory Shayne Rozier, lead dentist at the Pooler office, received his Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) degree at Georgia Health Sciences University (formerly the Medical College of Georgia) in 2006. Dr. Rozier looks forward to meeting the Pooler community and providing much needed access to high-quality dental care and education.

The Pooler practice, located in Chatham County, is one out of 14 Aspen Dental-branded locations in Georgia, a state where 112 out of 159 counties (including Chatham County) have dental health professional shortage areas as designated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services .

According to a study conducted in 2013 by Syracuse University's Whitman School of Management, each new Aspen Dental-branded office supports local community growth by contributing more than $1.3 million in positive economic impact through job creation and capital investment.  The local community benefits through investment in office construction, furniture and fixtures; jobs created and wages and benefits paid; taxes; and investment in marketing and advertising.

In addition to offering patients the choice of seven styles of Aspen Dental's exclusive ComfiDents® brand full and partial dentures, Aspen Dental will provide comprehensive exams, hygiene services, treatment of periodontal (gum) disease, extractions, fillings, oral surgery, whitening, and crown and bridge work. The office features digital radiography and offers advanced screening for oral cancer.

Personalized treatment and friendly service. Quick-fix solutions don't solve larger or chronic oral health problems. That's why the caring dentists at Aspen Dental take a comprehensive approach to dental care. Following the initial exam and X-rays, each patient receives a customized treatment plan designed by the dentist with long-term oral and overall health in mind.

Affordable care and flexible payment options. Cost shouldn't prevent patients from getting the dental care they deserve. That's why Aspen Dental offers special promotions, senior discounts, and free new-patient exams and X-rays for patients without dental insurance. The practice works with all insurance providers and handles the paperwork, saving patients time and hassle.

Customization and a Money-Back Guarantee for denture patients. When you choose Aspen Dental for any of the seven styles of ComfiDents® full and partial dentures, you have the peace of mind of knowing that the supportive dentists and staff will go above and beyond to ensure proper fit and comfort of your custom-crafted dentures. As an added convenience, Aspen Dental has its own on-site denture laboratory , which helps facilitate quick turnaround for denture repairs, relines or adjustments. Getting used to your dentures takes some time, but if you're dissatisfied with your dentures for any reason – Aspen Dental will refund the cost of your dentures when you return them within 90 days.

Convenient hours and location. The office will be open extended hours, including evenings and select Saturdays, so that patients can see the dentist at a time that works best for their schedule. Walk-in and emergency patients are welcome.

To make an appointment, patients can call (912) 330-9070 or 800-ASPEN DENTAL (800-277-3633), or visit www.aspendental.com .

Aspen Dental is one of the largest and fastest-growing networks of independent dental care providers in the U.S. with more than 400 practices in communities across 27 states. As part of its mission to provide America with a healthy mouth, Aspen Dental is providing millions of Americans with access to quality, affordable dental care. Every Aspen Dental-branded practice offers a full range of dental and denture services – including comprehensive exams, cleanings, extractions, fillings, periodontal treatment, whitening, oral surgery, crown and bridge work.

In 2013, Aspen Dental-branded practices recorded nearly 2.9 million patient visits and welcomed more than 600,000 new patients. The dentists and staff at Aspen Dental-branded practices have a deep commitment to patient satisfaction, and every Aspen Dental location is accredited by the Better Business Bureau.

Aspen Dental practices are supported by Aspen Dental Management, Inc., a dental support organization that provides non-clinical business support to licensed, independent dentists.
