
The ever-fluctuating  field of candidates seeking to win David Catania's at-large D.C. Council seat got a little clearer today, with Elissa Silverman declaring for the race and outgoing Councilmember Tommy Wells announcing that he won't run.

Silverman's entry into the race has been expected since she left her job at the lefty-wonk D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute last month. Still, Silverman, a former Washington City Paper reporter who came in second to Anita Bonds in April 2013's at-large special election, tells LL that she only decided for good that she would run recently.

Silverman has already switched her party registration from Democratic to independent, a necessary move for candidates hoping to take a seat reserved for non-majority party candidates. In November, she'll be facing several candidates, including ex-Eleanor Holmes Norton staffer Robert White, Logan Circle wine bar owner  Khalid Pitts , Statehood Green candidate Eugene Puryear, and anti-Walmart activist Graylan Hagler. But Silverman won't have to face one local pol: Wells. After he chose an ultimately failed mayoral bid over running for re-election in Ward 6 in the mayoral primary, Wells considered staying on the Council with an at-large bid. In  a statement to Greater Greater Washington today, though, Wells says he won't run.

Not that he couldn't win! Wells' statement—titled "The Ability to Win Isn't The Best Reason to Run"—makes clear that he thinks he'd win handily.

"I just came off a citywide race and likely could easily overwhelm a crowded field of lesser-known candidates," says Wells.

Silverman, who stands to benefit from Wells' absence from the race, says Wells told her last month that he planned to make his decision in 45 days. “I think those 45 days are up," she says.

This is a classic example of another of the many reasons politics, within the District, pardon my French - S-U-C-K-S! No one should be allowed to switch party affiliation and run for an elected office within the same calender year. But here in the District, it's call "politics of convenience."

If Tommy could beat Elissa, how did she get more total votes city-wide in a lower-turnout special election than he did in the Democratic mayoral primary? Both with equally-split progressive fields. The answer is he couldn't. Numbers don't lie.

Politicians around here change parties (from Dem to Indy and then back) about as often as they change socks and underwear. And that's a bad thing on multiple levels.

If she won she'd be replacing a white guy, so it wouldn't affect the racial makeup of the Council at all.

Mr. Will Sommer, you owe honorable Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner Kathy Henderson a personal apology on your demeaning characterization of labeling her a GADFLY.

MAN-UP...SOMMERS. You would hate it if the news media labeled your wife or daughter a GADFLY.

@Gurley - Too funny, one gadfly sticking up for another! Lol'z! I guess this is life in the post One City WCP comments section.

My vote against Calvin Gurley was decided after a not so subtle racial slight.. Got to talking to him along with a friend who's black, when he goes to me "You're not from here.." and proceeds to hand my friend his card.

I wasn't gonna vote for the joker anyway, but that sealed the deal.

Nobody likes snarky, know-it-alls who whine against the "system" and then plays back room "politicks".

I just don't feel like this campaign kick-off for Silverman is going as well as it could.

And, really, candidates should be banned from switching parties to not less than one year before the general election.
