
Getaway travelers often point out that timing the departure is often more important than selecting the route, since there are no undiscovered, congestion-free shortcuts during the busiest travel periods.

But if you’re traveling all the way across the D.C. region, you’re departure is likely to be done partly with rush-hour traffic and partly against it.

I am driving to Winston-Salem, N.C., on the Friday before Memorial Day.

I will be leaving Ellicott City on Friday morning around 0900 hours. Do you think driving south on I-95, south of Washington, D.C., will be backed up and moving slowly, or at that time of day should it move fairly well? Or would I do better to go west and hit Interstate 81 before turning south. Google says that I-81 is about a 45-minute longer drive than going down I-95, but of course, that is probably based on no traffic and moving at the posted speeds.

Another alternative could be driving down Route 301 and moving over to I-95 somewhere south of Washington, if you think that would be wiser.

This is a bit tricky, because the driver is going to leave home late in the morning rush hour, heading toward the District, then swing around and head away from the District.

If traffic is normal — meaning there are no lanes closed because of crashes — this traveler should stick with the Friday morning departure time and the I-95 route.

By 1 p.m. Fridays, it’s a very slow go southbound from Lorton to Fredericksburg. I-66 westbound outside the Capital Beltway has some difficult stretches from mid-afternoon to late afternoon Fridays. So does I-64 in Hampton Roads. But the Traffic Godzilla for getaway traffic is I-95.

Robert Thomson is The Washington Post’s “Dr. Gridlock.” He answers travelers’ questions, listens to their complaints and shares their pain on the roads, trains and buses in the Washington region.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
