
DES MOINES (AP) — A recently unveiled task force proposal to change the way Iowa funds its state-run universities has been greeted with skepticism by University of Iowa supporters who believe it could cut funding by millions.

The Iowa Board of Regents released a report on the task force’s proposal Friday and plans to discuss it June 4. The board charged the task force a year ago with finding better ways to fund higher education.

The Iowa City Press-Citizen reported that the performance-based funding model, if implemented, is estimated to take nearly $60 million a year in state appropriations from the University of Iowa and redistribute the money to Iowa State University and the University of Northern Iowa. UNI traditionally enrolls more in-state students.

Funding would be based 60 percent on in-state enrollment; 5 percent on degree progress; 10 percent on graduation rates; 10 percent on access of education to minorities, low-income students and veterans; and 5 percent on job placement of all students within five years of graduation. The final 10 percent would be split — half based on sponsored research at the university and half based on customized measures of quality determined by the universities and the regents.

The plan does not require approval from the Iowa Legislature or the governor to be enacted.

Regent Bob Downer, of Iowa City, said the proposed funding model fails to recognize the cost of educating a graduate or professional-degree student is much higher than that of an undergraduate — an oversight that he said would be devastating to UI and ISU, which offer most of the professional-degree programs in the state.

Len Hadley, retired CEO of the Maytag Corp. and UI’s representative on the five-person task force, was the only person to vote against the proposed model, which he said is “too narrow” and would benefit only UNI.

Hadley plans to propose an alternative funding model at the regents’ June meeting that he said would adjust the metrics to accommodate the larger number of graduate and professional-degree students and lean more heavily on the Iowa Legislature for additional funding.

Iowa residents make up 89 percent of the total UNI student population, about 60 percent of the student body at ISU and 54.5 percent at UI.

Alexandra Thomas, incoming UI Faculty Senate president, said attracting national and international students to campus enriches the academic experience for all students.

Copyright © 2014 Newton Daily News. All rights reserved. Published in Newton, Iowa, USA, by Shaw Media.
