
THE Court of Appeals (CA) ordered the judge hearing the serious illegal detention case against alleged pork barrel scam mastermind Janet Napoles to comment on her petition to be released on bail.

In a two-page resolution, the CA Special Seventh Division required Makati City Regional Trial Court branch 150 Judge Elmo Alameda and whistleblower Benhur Luy to articulate their position within 10 days from notice.

Napoles, meanwhile, has five days from receipt of the comment to counter the respondents’ claims.

Alameda junked Napoles’ bid for temporary liberty twice (November 2013 and February 2014), saying Luy was actually deprived of his liberty by Napoles and her brother, Reynald Lim.

Napoles denied detaining Luy, claiming her estranged personal assistant went on a spiritual retreat in exchange for the non-filing of cases against him for allegedly stealing P300,000 and obtaining loans worth more than P5 million without her consent.

Luy was rescued by National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) agents in Napoles' condominium unit on March 22 last year after three months in detention.

The businesswoman is currently detained at the Ospital ng Makati, where her uterus and ovaries were removed due to a cyst.

Napoles recently asked the Department of Justice (DOJ) to endorse her as state witness in the scam following the release of her list of lawmakers and government officials who allegedly benefited from the corruption of the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF).

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
