
Your daily resource for late-breaking news, upcoming events, the Denver weather forecast , Denver traffic information , and the stories that will be talked about today, Monday, May 19, 2014.

Denver police are investigating after the victims of a shooting either drove or were dropped off at The Children's Hospital early Monday morning. A man died, and police are investigating outside a Quality Inn hotel .

A Denver Post analysis of school discipline data found that Colorado has failed to make significant progress in reversing a trend that has left minority students bearing the brunt of strict discipline policies.

The Colfax Marathon, a humble main-street race that starts and ends in prosaically named City Park, doesn't attract Olympians but does makes dreams come true for ordinary people with extraordinary goals, like Pat Sullivan who was humble after his win . If you ran the race, take a look at our photo gallery to see if we got a shot of you in action. And, it was a big day for Cali Leopold, who finished her first half marathon and got way more than just a finisher's medal .

Denver's most recognizable dot-com is at a crossroads , grappling with a steep erosion of its core business amid fierce competition from a pair of tech Goliaths in Google and Apple.

Sign up to start your day with 10 stories you need to read, right in your inbox.

We promise we won't use your email address for anything else.

A hologram of Michael Jackson brings many to tears , while Justin Timberlake takes home seven awards and Jennifer Lopez becomes the first woman to win the icon award.

Note: Our article pages automatically refresh every ten minutes. We cannot change this. If you start writing your comment on this page, please refresh the page before you do so — this will reset the ten-minute counter.

You must be registered to comment (your comment will be saved for you while you register). It's quick (it takes about 30 seconds) and we only require your email and name. Comments that include any offensive material are prohibited. By using our site you agree to our terms of use .

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed for any commercial purpose.
