
The Japanese helmer's trademark visual splendor is weighed down by a chunky, underdeveloped script.

Croisette regular Naomi Kawase's latest, set on a subtropical island off mainland Japan, revolves around two teenagers inducting themselves into both nature and adulthood.

Enigmatic, exotic, erotic: three adjectives commonly bandied about in discussion about Naomi Kawase's films. Not for her latest outing, though. Sure, Still the Water has its moments of mystery (a corpse floating in the sea at night), portrayals of traditional rituals (from dancing to the throat-slitting of goats) and sex, but all is rendered less beguiling for the simplistic (and sometimes even artless) ways they are rendered onscreen. Combined with its sprawling narrative and insubstantial characters, the movies seems some distance from the creative heights Kawase attained with tightly regimented yet deeply engaging films like Suzaku (1997), Shara (2003) and The Mourning Forest (2007).

It's the people who pose problems. While retaining some of Kawase's favorite themes -- the meaning of life and death, the unseen umbilical cords between mother and child and the power of nature over human civilization -- Still the Water elects to spell all this out through its chunky dialogue, in an ironic reverse of the mumbling, obscure symbolism which sunk the director's previous film, Hanezu. Characters wonder aloud "why people have to be born and then die"; a divorced father muses about "fate" shaping his marriage and separation from his wife; a village elder chuckles and says how "those kids still don't know what lies in the sea."

It's perhaps interesting how Still the Water began as if Kawase had taken a page out of fellow slow-cinema auteur Nuri Bilge Ceylan's genre-reinvention playbook, that is the hit-and-run-and-corruption drama Three Monkeys. After a brief prologue of two very violent scenes -- of a typhoon hitting the island and the bloody slaughtering of a goat -- the film proper begins when teenager Kaito (Nijiri Murakami) discovers the body of a naked, heavily tattooed man by the sea; the next day, villagers gather and chatter, speculating about the reasons for the man's death and worrying how this might alter the state of an island "with not that many crimes."

But implications of noir dissipate as the cadaver -- which will be a connection to the boy's emotional impasse, but more of that later -- isn't mentioned again in the next half-hour. Straight after leaving the gathering crowd by the sea, Kaito was chastised by his paramour, Kyoko (Jun Yoshinaga), for running away from the shore the previous night, as they were supposed to have a rendezvous there.

As the film progresses, the pair's relationship will ebb and flow as they struggle to articulate and acknowledge emotions; from one of Kaito's dream, it's clear his emotional blockage is due to some serious mommy issues, his angst about his parents' divorce and his mother's post-separation love-life.

And of course there's nature: Kawase's eye for beauty remains impeccable, as she and DP Yutaka Yamazaki vividly evoke Asami Oshima's landscapes. But it's also in looking for the "natural" that Still the Water comes up short. While the director prides herself for having a mix of pro and amateur actors improvising scenes, many awkward moments emerge as the characters seemingly are just instructed to let their conversations and interactions flow: the result is missed beats, protracted silences and characters staring at each other or into space for too long.

Bar the Bangkok-set misstep Nanayomachi from 2008, Still the Water is the director's first feature-film foray outside her hometown of Nara; this project was developed out of Kawase's discovery of her maternal grandmother's roots on the island. While she could conjure the splendor and some of the cultural legacy of the island onscreen, the more specific traits of the place are not sufficiently mined, such as the Amami archipelago's uniqueness from mainland Japan in terms of geography and history (the island was ruled by a U.S.-installed provisional government from 1947 to 1953; a banner celebrating the 60th anniversary of the "restoration" of Japanese sovereignty could be seen in a shot at the airport in the film).

These are specific manifestations of dislocation and alienation ripe for development, or to be deployed as symbolism for the separation and union of the peoples and couples in the film, something Kawase did well with her first film, Suzaku (in which a village family disintegrates because of memories of rural underdevelopment). Here, at the end of Still the Water, an old man's voice says: "These kids don't know what lies in the sea." And, indeed, there are a lot of unknowns in the film.
