
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. (Ivanhoe Newswire) - Pilates studio owner Tonya Amos needs her body to run her business. However, the former professional dancer started feeling intense pain. A visit to her doctor revealed the cause.

“She said, ‘Does this hurt’ and she pushed on my abdomen, and I said, ‘Yeah that hurts’, and she said, ‘Yeah that’s a fibroid,’” Amos told Ivanhoe.

Amos had several fibroids. One of them was as large as a grapefruit.

Dr. Vanessa Jacoby is studying new ways to shrink fibroids, without major surgery. With MR-guided focused ultrasound, an ultrasound beam focuses on the fibroid and creates heat.

“That heat burns the fibroid cells and destroys them,” Vanessa Jacoby, MD, MAS, Assistant Professor Obstetrician/Gynecologist, Dept. of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Services, University of California, San Francisco, told Ivanhoe.

Another method, laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation, requires three tiny incisions. A probe is placed in the fibroid.

“We use radiofrequency energy to burn the fibroid cells,” Dr. Jacoby explained.

With a hysterectomy, there’s a three- to six-week recovery. The ablation is about a week. The ultrasound therapy is just two days.

Amos had the ultrasound treatment. It shrunk her fibroids.

Doctor Jacoby said not all patients with fibroids are candidates for these two new treatments. It depends on the size, location, and number of fibroids.

Inramural: The most common type of fibroid. They are found in the wall of the uterus and cause heavier than normal menstrual bleeding, pelvic pain, back pain or generalized pressure.

Submucosal: This is the least common type of fibroid, but often times the most problematic. Submucosal fibroids are found in the muscle beneath the inner lining of the uterus.

Dr. Jacoby: Right, so, laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation is another very new, exciting, minimally invasive approach to treat fibroids. The idea with this is that you have a laparoscopic surgery where you have just two small incisions in the abdomen and then we use an ultrasound during surgery inside the abdomen to visualize the fibroids and then we take a really small probe, about the size of a pencil and we place it into the fibroid and we use radiofrequency energy to burn the fibroid cells. And then the surgery is done. The patient goes home the same day and the recovery is quite fast, so women are usually back to their usual activities in about a week.

Dr. Jacoby: The one thing we didn’t talk about is a lot of people ask about pregnancy and how fibroids can affect pregnancy. This impacts who’s a candidate for which treatment. Uterine artery embolization which I mentioned has been around for many years and is a very effective treatment. The reason that we have newer treatments is because uterine artery embolization has some concerns for women who want to get pregnant in the future. So, there have been some studies that show that women who get this treatment may have some adverse pregnancy outcomes or difficulty getting pregnant in the future.  We do not recommend uterine artery embolization for women who want to get pregnant in the future.  We’re always seeking treatments that are minimally invasive, but safe for pregnancy and fertility. And for radiofrequency ablation, one of our newer treatments, it has not been studied in women who want to get pregnant in the future, but that’s one of the areas that we’re actively studying because we hope that this will be a treatment that can serve women who want to get pregnant in the future.  And similarly for MR-guided focused ultrasound; they’re too early in their use to have great information about women who want to get pregnant, but that’s a really active area that we’re researching.

This site uses Facebook comments to make it easier for you to contribute.       If you see a comment you would like to flag for spam or abuse,       click the "x" in the upper right of it. By posting,       you agree to our Terms of Use .
