
Law360, New York (May 19, 2014,  6:59 PM ET) -- New York's insurance regulator on Friday attacked American International Group Inc .'s lawsuit challenging the watchdog's investigation into unlicensed activities by former AIG units, claiming that it was a “textbook example” of a suit where a federal court should not step in.

New York Department of Financial Services Superintendent Ben Lawsky told the federal court that the DFS' investigation of AIG was still ongoing and that the department is unsure of what charges, if any, it will level against the insurer. The potential charges against AIG could go “well beyond” the two statutory provisions the company is challenging in its suit , the regulator said in a motion to dismiss.

In the litigation, AIG confronts the DFS over its claims that former AIG subsidiaries American Life Insurance Co. and Delaware American Life Insurance Co. improperly marketed life insurance products without a state license.

MetLife , which acquired the units, has agreed to pay $60 million to resolve the New York regulator's claims, but AIG insists that a state license is unnecessary for foreign insurers that market products that are sold exclusively to foreign policyholders.

AIG accuses Lawsky of violating due process and free speech and of unconstitutionally discriminating against foreign commerce.

According to Lawsky, though, AIG's suit asks the court to intervene prematurely and in a way that would encroach on state regulation of insurance.

The regulator said in its dismissal motion that former AIG units improperly marketed, negotiated and sold insurance products in New York, in working with multinational companies with New York offices, such as Citigroup Inc ., General Electric Co . and PepsiCo Inc .

AIG should let the investigation go forward, raise its arguments in administrative proceedings and if necessary, file a challenge in state court, Lawsky said.

An attorney for AIG declined to comment, while a representative for the DFS did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday.

AIG has told the court before that it is being irreparably harmed because the department has already concluded that the insurance giant ran afoul of New York's law and is seeking to levy substantial fines on the company. The regulator maintains, however, that AIG remains under investigation.

AIG is represented by Kathleen M. Sullivan, Michael B. Carlinsky and William A. Burck of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP .

Lawsky and the DFS are represented by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Assistant Attorneys General Elizabeth Forman, Elizabeth Prickett-Morgan and Daniel Schulze.

The case is American International Group Inc. v. New York State Department of Financial Services et al., case number 1:14-cv-02355 , in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.

--Editing by Edrienne Su.
