
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to www.wiscnews.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

Jenna Brescia, 12, will lead the American Cancer Society's Relay for Life walk June 13 at Baraboo High School.

Jenna Brescia doesn’t look like the prototypical cancer survivor. She’s only 12.

But she has endured a grueling battle, and works hard to make others’ fights a little easier. That’s why she was selected to lead this year’s Relay for Life walk in Baraboo.

“She gives hope to a lot of people who think it can’t affect kids,” said Deb Burroughs, who along with daughter Alyssa nominated Brescia for the honor.

The Jack Young Middle School seventh-grader has been cancer-free for six years. She now recruits friends to make bracelets to raise money for American Family Children’s Hospital in Madison, and has formed a 42-member team to take part in the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life on June 13.

“It helps out a lot of people you don’t even realize have cancer,” Jenna said.

She was diagnosed with leukemia in September 2005. After being sick with colds for an entire summer, she saw a physician’s assistant who ordered a blood test that would change – and perhaps save – her life. It found her bone marrow had stopped functioning, and her body contained less than 20 percent of its blood capacity.

“It was scary because we didn’t know what was wrong and wouldn’t have had her for more than a couple more days without even knowing,” said her mother, Jamie Brescia.

After blood transfusions at University of Wisconsin Hospital, Jenna went through chemotherapy for more than two years. “We lived in the hospital a lot of those two years,” her mother said.

A port was placed in her chest and connected to an artery to facilitate treatment. Every sniffle was a cause of concern.

But today, leukemia doesn’t affect Jenna’s daily life. She has one all-day appointment each year, involving thorough checks of her heart and blood.

Jamie Brescia works at Exquisite Salon with Deb and Alyssa Burroughs, Relay for Life supporters who nominated Jenna as this year’s honorary survivor. At a spring Relay for Life kickoff meeting, Jenna was named honorary survivor and given a sash and flowers. “I was kind of embarrassed at first, but then I’m like, ‘Yeah, I’m awesome,’” Jenna said with a smile.

In addition to raising money, she’ll raise awareness that cancer survivors include people of all ages. “Not a lot of people think it affects younger kids,” Alyssa Burroughs said.

Copyright 2014 Wiscnews.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Yes.

No, and I don't plan to.

Local businesses offer you great deals on goods and services.

Baraboo and Sauk County headlines delivered to your email inbox daily.

Baraboo and Sauk County sports headlines delivered to your email inbox daily.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
