
On Thursday the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted in favor of the proposed net neutrality regulations . The purpose of the proposed rule making is to protect consumers from harms identified in the 2010 Open Internet Order.

In January, a DC federal appeals court struck down the 2010 Federal Communication Commission’s net neutrality rules. The rules prevented Internet service providers from blocking or prioritizing Internet traffic. There are now no legally enforceable rules to protect and promote an open Internet.

Part of the question is whether the FCC has the authority to regulate the Internet. The court believed the FCC overstepped its bounds. A previous FCC decision put broadband companies out of the scope of their authority by classifying them in a way that exempts them from being treated as a common carrier.

They also requested discussion as to whether Section 706, Title 2, or another source of legal authority is best suited to promoting an open Internet. Proceeding under Title 2 would give the FCC authority over wireless.

A statement followed from the bench commissioner Mignon Clyburn, in which she shared her mother had called to discuss public policy, something that had never happened before in her service. The anecdote was meant to reflect general public confusion over the issue and the the importance of the Internet to the general public. She followed with a discussion of open internet, explaining it in terms to promote understanding of all the issues and the involvement of the FCC.

Commissioner Ajit Pai recommended the FCC seek guidance from Congress. He feels the proposal has sparked such a public date yet there is a bipartisan consensus on a free and open Internet. In 2004, FCC commissioner Powell outlined four principles of Internet freedom.“The freedom to access lawful content, the freedom to use applications, the freedom to attach personal devices to the network and the freedom to obtain service plan information.” The Internet policy statement was adopted in 2005 based on these principles.

Pai said the four Internet freedom principles have fostered growth and investment in the internet and infrastructure and made the United States the “epicenter of online innovation.” Although committed to protecting these freedoms, he believes they would be best be governed under Clinton’s telecommunications act in 1996, promoting a free market unfettered by federal or state regulations.

This portion of the meeting ended with FCC net neutrality rules passing in a 3-2 vote.

In theory, it seems everyone is in favor of an open Internet. The question is whether the FCC has the authority to regulate it and if so under which rules. How this will affect the cloud and hosting community is far reaching. The next 120 days of public commentary will be critical in affecting how the Internet moves forward from here.

Cheryl Kemp is the Content Director for the WHIR and HostingCon. At the WHIR she is responsible for writing and developing content, managing social media communities, and photography and videography. At HostingCon she is responsible for recruiting and coordinating advisory boards, as well as managing the conference program development process and speaker selection. She attended the University of Cincinnati and holds a degree in Psychology. You can find her on twitter and google+ .

Internet users everywhere should be gravely concerned. The US fed.gov and its oppressive plethora bureaucratic agencies never does anything to expand the rights and freedoms of individuals. All legislation proffered these days in Washington is designed to undermine rights, freedoms, privileges and protections given under the founding documents in the guise of being beneficial and helpful. A common, thinly veiled ploy is to purposely mis-name the legislation as the exact opposite of what it does in the fine print to deceive the proletariat, while granting unchallenged privilege to government and their small circle of grafty friends. Lame stream with their dullard journalism and inept journalists never read past the opening paragraph of misstatements; they would choke on the meat. The US fed.gov is the most dangerous (and hated) entity in the universe. No person of good conscious can nor should support any effort put forth by the charlatans inhabiting the District of Criminals. Res ipsa loquitor. Do not take my word; do your own research. Rumors of "freedom" are grossly exaggerated and purposely misstated; "Freedom" and "liberty" are mere buzzwords in Washington these days. It is the highest duty of every citizen of the universe to oppose the US fed.gov at every turn with all firm determination. No sacrifice is too great to oppose pure evil. ©2014 All rights reserved. Wake up before you and yours are buried.

ResellerClub presents HostingCon Europe Register now for ResellerClub Presents HostingCon Europe. Oct 14-15, Amsterdam. Save €50 with Early Bird Pricing!

New Behavioral Approach to Web Security by Fireblade Click the link to learn how to inspect your users’ behavior and interactions with valuable website assets as a part of a new approach to web security.
