
DENVER, CO--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) -  National Teaching Institute (NTI) & Critical Care Exposition, Booth #1643 -- Nihon Kohden America , a market leader in patient monitoring innovation, is at NTI 2014 this week showcasing its Enterprise Monitoring Solution that helps save lives and makes high acuity and critical care nurses more effective. At NTI, Nihon Kohden America will also host several educational sessions as part of the Critical Care Exposition.

Nihon Kohden America's ExpoEd sessions are 30-minute educational, in-service-style learning opportunities covering topics that are relevant to high acuity and critical care. Presented by Nihon Kohden registered nurses, participants earn CERP credits for each session they attend.

A Quick Guide to MI Patterns on the 12-Lead ECG - will describe proper electrode placement and the importance of their positions, identify the components and intervals of an ECG tracing, and teach how to practice a systematic approach to 12-lead ECG analysis for determining axis and basic MI patterns.

Alarm Management and Nursing Best Practice - Decreasing Alarm Fatigue - will cover best practices and tactics to reduce alarm fatigue to improve patient safety and achieve positive clinical outcomes. Attendees will be exposed to alarm smoothing and intelligent alarm technology to assist in reducing nuisance alarms, thus making alarms clinically actionable.

Capnography throughout the Hospital, Realizing Success while Improving Quality and Saving Costs - will discuss the growing number of standards that require the use of capnography monitoring in both critical care and those areas of the hospital with little or no experience with continuous vital sign monitoring. Attendees will learn the impact of these standards upon the critical care environment as well as overall hospital efficiencies.

Each session will be presented multiple times over the course of the Exposition. For a complete list of dates and times, visit the ExpoEd Sessions calendar or stop by Nihon Kohden America's booth (#1643).

"In addition to our patented patient monitoring solutions, we pride ourselves as being industry thought leaders," said Mike Dashefsky, vice president, Nihon Kohden America. "Our ExpoEd sessions at NTI will shine a spotlight on some of the toughest issues facing nurses today and provide tips and best practices for addressing those issues."

NTI is the premier clinical education program for nurses caring for patients with complex health problems. More than 7,000 nurses attend this event each year where more than 400 sessions, plus an intensive preconference program of half-day and full-day workshops, are all available for continuing education credits. NTI also includes the Critical Care Exposition, the largest and most comprehensive trade show focused on acute and critical care nurses. More than 500 companies exhibit each year.

For more information, please visit www.nkusa.com/monitoring .

The monitoring division of Nihon Kohden America is empowering hospitals to radically improve their quality and economics of care. Its singular focus is on patient monitoring. Through collaboration with hospitals, Nihon Kohden America helps solve today's healthcare challenges. This different mindset and business approach enables the company to deliver solutions that have an immediate clinical and financial impact. Find more information at www.nkusa.com/monitoring or you can follow us at Facebook and Twitter .

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
