
At a conference in New York earlier this month, James Gorman, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, tried to explain to an audience of non-bankers the dramatic changes at his firm. He chose a nautical metaphor.

The firm has an “engine room,” he said, the areas that rev up when markets are racing. But it has added a major element in recent years.

After nearly sinking during the financial crisis, Morgan Stanley has gone much further than any of its peers in reshaping its business to navigate new waters. Unlike its rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley made a deliberate choice to become more boring. It bulked up its retail brokerage arm – the ballast – and reduced its exposure to risky trades.

Now it is close to declaring an early victory. In its results for the first quarter announced in April, the firm hit a sweet spot: strong annual growth in profit from its investment banking businesses, such as trading and advising on deals, combined well with a similarly healthy jump in profit from its wealth management unit, which now represents almost half of the firm’s total revenues.

As mergers and acquisitions surge worldwide, Morgan Stanley has seized a primary role. So far this year, it is in first place among banks for arranging such deals globally, according to Bloomberg data.

In particular, profit margins are not yet at the levels that Mr. Gorman has targeted. A key measure of bank profitability is return on equity – in effect, how much profit they generate with shareholders’ capital. In the most recent quarter, Morgan Stanley had a return on equity of 8.9 per cent, compared with 10.9 per cent for Goldman Sachs.

But several analysts believe Morgan Stanley’s new two-pronged strategy – the ballast plus the engine room – is well-suited to today’s environment of heavy regulation, soaring stock markets and tepid economic recovery. Over the past year, its shares are up nearly 20 per cent.

He added that banks had employed “frankly appalling underwriting standards” in the runup to the meltdown and that his firm was “eternally grateful” for the capital infusion it received from the U.S. government.

A major part of Mr. Gorman’s vision for Morgan Stanley involved building up the business of providing investments and services to wealthy individuals via brokers. Last year, Morgan Stanley completed a deal with Citigroup Inc. to buy out the latter’s entire share in their joint wealth management business, which included the former Smith Barney retail brokerage.

That means Morgan Stanley now has sole control of a giant retail footprint that includes more than 16,000 advisers managing nearly $2-trillion (U.S.) in customer assets. Historically, wealth management is a less volatile business than investment banking. And the customer cash it brings can be deployed to fund other loans across the firm, whether individual mortgages or corporate financing.

To adapt to the new regulatory environment, Morgan Stanley has jettisoned the trading desks that made bets for the firm’s own profit. It’s also looking to offload two units involved in the transportation and storage of oil as U.S. regulators scrutinize banks’ involvement in such areas.

Most significantly, Mr. Gorman has downsized the firm’s unit that trades bonds, currencies and commodities, a traditional profit driver for investment banks. He is reducing the assets – weighted by risk – deployed in the unit to $200-billion, cutting them in half over a four-year period. The bond-trading business has delivered uneven performance in recent years and the firm is now focusing on improving profit margins rather than expanding revenues.

© Thomson Reuters 2012.

All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content, or for any actions taken in reliance on such content. ‘Thomson Reuters’ and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.

Selected data supplied by Thomson Reuters.© Thomson Reuters Limited. Click for Restrictions .

© Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
