
(Newser) –                                                                     A New Hampshire police commissioner has resigned after he admitted using a racial slur to describe President Obama, a Wolfeboro town official said today. Robert Copeland, 82, resigned last night from the post to which he was re-elected in March, putting to rest a controversy that drew national attention and sparked impassioned debate in the resort town of 6,300 on the shore of Lake Winnipesaukee. "The town is pleased," Board of Selectmen Chair Linda Murray says. "This gives us the opportunity to move on. We are a very accepting community that really takes care of each other."

Copeland admitted using the n-word, preceded by an obscenity, while he was at a restaurant in March. A resident overheard him and complained to town officials when she learned that Copeland was a police commissioner, but he refused to apologize even as more than 100 residents pushed for his ouster at a meeting last week. Mitt Romney, who owns a home in the town, called for Copeland's resignation, saying , "The vile epithet used and confirmed by the commissioner has no place in our community: He should apologize and resign."

He's older, but he would not have been re-elected to the position of police commissioner had he not been judged capable of such a position.  Sounds like he has been on a power trip for too long, by way of affiliation with... whomever, or simply because he is 'top cop' in a 'small environment' who is not afraid to say what he pleases.

newser's troll moderators had a field day deleting comments on this thread ... fascist rogue mods are ubiquitous here and always have been. Michael Wolff's finest.

Death by old age....natures way of managing racism.

Face it: there's too much news. At Newser, we choose the most thought-provoking and entertaining stories from hundreds of US and international sources and reduce them to a headline, picture, and two paragraphs. And we do it 24/7—you can come back morning, noon, night (and in between) for something new that matters. Read less, know more.
