
On this day in 1795, Josiah Bartlett, a signatory of the Declaration of Independence from New Hampshire who also served as the state’s governor and chief justice of the New Hampshire Superior Court of Judicature, died at age 65.

Beginning in 1999, a fictional U.S. president named Josiah Bartlet, was portrayed by Martin Sheen on the NBC series “The West Wing.” Despite the spelling difference, Sheen’s character, as a supposed direct descendant, also was said to be a former New Hampshire governor and member of Congress. The series ended its seven-year run May 14, 2006.

The real Bartlett began life in Amesbury, Massachusetts, in 1729. By age 17, he had learned to read Latin and Greek and begun his studies as a physician. His started his professional career in Kingston, New Hampshire, in 1750. Four years later, Bartlett married his cousin, Mary, who already shared his surname. Together, they had 12 children, although one died. All of the couple’s surviving sons and grandsons also became physicians.

By 1765, Bartlett had become active in colonial politics, serving in the New Hampshire Legislature from 1765-1775, when he became a member of the soon-to-be revolutionary Continental Congress. In 1776, Bartlett signed the Declaration of Independence immediately after John Hancock. He took part in all the critical stages of the formation of the fledgling U.S. government, signing the Articles of Confederation and serving in the Philadelphia convention that drafted the federal Constitution.

In 1789, after the state Legislature elected Bartlett to the U.S. Senate, he declined the post. At the same time, he stepped down from his post as the chief justice of New Hampshire’s Supreme Court. The following year, he was elected president of the state of New Hampshire. A subsequent convention, of which he was a member, changed his title to governor. He continued to serve in that role until 1794.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
