
A solicitor who acted as a ‘middleman’ to bribe Nigerian politicians and officials has been struck off.

The Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal last week struck off Jeffrey Tesler following his conviction for bribery charges in the US state of Texas.

The SDT heard that Tesler (pictured) was jailed for 21 months in February 2012 after a Texas court found him guilty of conspiring to channel bribes to politicians and officials.

At the SDT he admitted acting as a ‘middleman’ for a consortium to route payments through bank accounts in Monaco and Switzerland between 1994 and 2004, arranging for $1m (£635,000) in $100 notes to be passed to a politician to finance a political party in Nigeria.

Tesler, who was working at north London firm Kaye Tesler & Co at the time, was also given two years’ probation and agreed to forfeit more than $148m (£94m) from accounts in 12 Swiss banks and four from Israel.

The case before the SDT was brought by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA). The tribunal found that Tesler’s actions constituted a failure to act with integrity and a failure to uphold the confidence the public has in the profession.

The tribunal ordered Tesler to pay £7,000 costs.

Currently 2.5% is discounted from large settlements, usually involving medical negligence.

Investigation showed departing director tried to use data for new business venture.

The Wills and Inheritance Quality Scheme (WIQS) promotes the importance of solicitors through a recognised quality standard for wills, probate and estate administration practices.

The Law Society’s international practice management standard that can give your practice the framework to enhance your business and provide your clients with a recognisable assurance of quality.

Law Society Consulting can help your business to develop and succeed. We offer expert, confidential support to help you navigate through regulatory, legislative, market and economic changes.

The Law Society represents solicitors in England and Wales. From negotiating with and lobbying the profession’s regulators, government and others, to offering training and advice, we’re here to help, protect and promote solicitors across England and Wales.
