
The boss of pork producer Cranswick has praised the company’s strong revenue and sales growth despite feeling the strain of record input prices.

To send a link to this page to a friend, you must be logged in.

Martin Davey, chairman of the EDP Top100 company, said it had been a “positive” but “challenging” year for the business which saw revenues grow 12pc to £980.6m and profits up 6pc to £52.2m.

It comes as the Watton-based company continued to see a growing customer appetite for its produce overseas, with sales expanding by 10pc to £50m in the Far East thanks to an upsurge in demand for premium pork and fifth quarter materials.

“This has been a positive, albeit challenging, year for Cranswick,” Mr Davey said. “The business had to contend with record input prices, the impact on its customer base of the changing dynamics of UK food retailing and an environment where the consumer has been subject to ongoing financial constraints.

“Strong growth in both total and underlying sales was recorded and this reflected market share gains along with further growth in those categories in which the group is positioned in the UK market.  Export sales continued to grow and this achievement was recently recognised by the industry with Cranswick being named ‘Exporter of the Year’.

“During the year the company invested in pig breeding and pig rearing activities. This strategic development enhances Cranswick’s commitment to, and gives greater control over, a robust and integrated supply chain with a clear focus on premium British ingredients.

Please log in to leave a comment and share your views with other Eastern Daily Press visitors.

We enable people to post comments with the aim of encouraging open debate.

Only people who register and sign up to our terms and conditions can post comments. These terms and conditions explain our house rules and legal guidelines.

Comments are not edited by Eastern Daily Press staff prior to publication but may be automatically filtered.

If you have a complaint about a comment please contact us by clicking on the Report This Comment button next to the comment.

Register to create your own unique Eastern Daily Press account for free.

Signing up is free, quick and easy and offers you the chance to add comments, personalise the site with local information picked just for you, and more.
