
anyoption (Israel) Ltd. announces that Nadav Zohar has been appointed as CEO. anyoption welcomes Sagit Reich as the CFO of anyoption.

A director of the company stated in an interview early this month, "We are excited to welcome Nadav to our team. With his successful track record and experience we feel confident that the company is in the right hands, with a new chief executive at the helm who will take anyoption to the next level, while exceeding its present status as the global industry leader."

Nadav Zohar has held numerous roles in the business and financial industries. Nadav acted as Senior Consultant of the Impact Equity Corporation advising and taking management consultancy roles in a select portfolio of growth media and technology companies. From 2008-2013 Nadav acted as Chairman of Soluto, a leading software company. Prior to joining Soluto Nadav held a number of roles at Morgan Stanley, including Executive Director at the Financial Sponsor Group, European Banking and Global Technology groups.

Sagit has a decade of extensive experience in senior financial and operational management. Prior to joining anyoption, Sagit held the position of CFO of Comigo Ltd, where she took part in navigating the company through the dynamic world of PTV and OTT platforms, mobile and streaming television. Prior to Comigo, Sagit held the position of CFO for Quark Pharmaceuticals Inc., a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company engaged in discovering and developing therapeutic RNAi drug candidates. From 2000-2010 Sagit was a Senior Manager for Ernst&Young a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services.

Nadav Zohar stated when he took the reigns as CEO of anyoption earlier this year, "The Binary Options industry is very dynamic and cutting edge, and anyoption have always been the leaders and innovators within this industry. This is a proud tradition that I aim to maintain and to better."

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos and customised feeds just for Media.

View and download archived video content distributed by MultiVu on The Digital Center .

Enhance your website's or blog's content with PR Newswire's customised real-time news feeds.
