
Financial advisors now have access to San Diego-based MVP REIT, Inc., a publicly registered, non-traded REIT hybrid,  through First Trust Retirement's IRA, Roth IRA, and Simplified Employee Pension Plan (SEP) accounts.

With the additions, the First Trust lineup now includes more than 20 product sponsors offering select alternative investments not typically available through mutual fund and brokerage-offered IRAs, including non-traded REITs and Business Development Companies.

"We're pleased to see a product manufacturer like MVP REIT join the First Trust lineup," says Larry Kiefer, Vice President of Business Development at DST. "It's a win for everyone involved…advisors gain access to a wide variety of investment options and the sponsors are able to round out their product offerings on DST's platform."

First Trust Retirement -- a unique solution powered by DST's industry-leading shareholder servicing technology -- streamlines the process for advisors offering alternative investments to their self-directed IRA clients. Annual custodial fees start as low as $25, and account setup is up to three times faster than other custodial providers.

"Financial advisors are looking for products that generate absolute return with lower volatility, and First Trust enables them to spend less time, less effort, and less cost finding alternative investments for their clients' IRAs," says Kiefer.

DST, well known as the largest third-party provider of investor recordkeeping services in the U.S., is also the leading provider of alternative fund solutions to the mass distribution retail market. With a scalable service model that can be tailored to the exact set of services an alternatives business requires, DST is currently servicing over 2.0 million alternative accounts.

About DSTDST Systems, Inc. is a leading provider of sophisticated information processing and servicing solutions to companies around the world. Through its global enterprise, DST delivers strategically unified transactions and business processing, data management, and customer communications solutions to the asset management, brokerage, retirement, and healthcare markets. Headquartered in Kansas City, MO., DST is a publicly-traded company on the New York Stock Exchange. For more information, visit www.dstsystems.com .

About First Trust RetirementFirst Trust Retirement is the premier IRA custodian choice of alternative investment product sponsors. First Trust Retirement combines the transfer agency servicing solutions of DST Systems Inc., with an IRA custodial offering. With First Trust Retirement, clients have the flexibility to select an alternative investment for their self-directed IRAs that is not typically available through mutual fund and brokerage offered IRAs.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
