
The surge in the stock market following the exit poll results was spectacular. In three trading sessions, the Nifty shot up 449 points, or 6.74%. However, several Nifty-based exchange traded funds (ETFs) failed to mimic the movement of their benchmark indices.

On 9 May, the day the Nifty rose 2.99%, the Birla Sun Life Nifty actually fell by 1.4%. On 13 May, when the Nifty shot up 1.35%, the Reliance Nifty ETF fell by 4%. On the same day, the ICICI Prudential Nifty ETF shot up 16.5%.

Such aberrations are common in case of ETFs, which are thinly traded on the exchanges. The Birla Sun Life ETF has an AUM of Rs. 1.19 crore. In the past one month, its average traded volume has been 600 units (see table). The Reliance ETF has an AUM of Rs. 13.03 crore and an average daily traded volume of 992 units in the past one month. Due to the thin trading and lack of investor interest, the gap between the NAV and the market price has widened for some ETFs. Many thinly traded ETFs are available at discounts to their NAVs. Now, investors face the dilemma of either remaining invested or get out by accepting the discounted price the market is willing to pay.

What's keeping the ETFs from moving in tandem with their benchmarks? While the retail investors are supposed to buy or sell them in the secondary market, market makers are allowed to invest or redeem them directly from the fund house.

They buy ETFs from the secondary market and redeem from the fund house when it is quoting at a discount. Similarly, if the market prices go beyond the NAV, they take the units from the fund houses, sell them in the secondary market, and pocket the gains. It is the active participation of market makers that makes sure the ETFs move close to their NAVs. Therefore, it means that the market makers of the ETFs that are lagging are not doing their job.

The purpose of investing in ETFs will be defeated if their market prices are not moving in tandem with their respective NAVs. So, let us take a closer look at the steps that ETF investors should take. ETF investing is not very popular in India for various reasons. Good performance by actively managed funds is one of them.

"ETFs have not succeeded in India because index investing is not popular, more so, because the actively managed funds are beating the bench market indices for 5-10 year periods," says Dhirendra Kumar, CEO, Value Research. As long as the actively managed funds outperform, the investors will not opt for index investing.

The new investors who want to invest in ETFs need to keep in mind several important factors. First, compare the historical traded volume and get in only if there is enough average traded volume. Opt for only the top three performers. Since average volume can be impacted by high volume in a day, consider the lowest volume it recorded during the last three months to get a clear picture.

Second, keep track of the spread between the bid prices and ask prices, and make sure it is lower. Otherwise price volatility will be very high and you may be forced to buy at a higher price and sell it at lower. Third, AUM plays a significant role and, historically, ETFs with a higher AUM have a higher trading volume.

We are not suggesting active trading in ETFs, but investors should not ignore the market altogether after buying them. For example, you might have bought an ETF with a high AUM and volume, and very low bid-ask spread, but conditions can change. Therefore, you need to keep track on a regular basis and shift out from illiquid ETF counters, where the average traded volume is low. "Ideally, one must review it every month, if not at least once a quarter," says Kiran Kumar Kavikondala , director & CEO, WealthRays Securities.

If your ETF quotes at a huge discount, the right approach would be to directly redeem it from the AMC . This is allowed under two circumstances. First, when the counter is totally illiquid and there is no trading for a long time.

Second, when it quotes at a discount to its NAV for several days. "If there are no quotes in the secondary market or on the NSE for five consecutive trading days or, if the average discount of the bid price to the indicative NAV over a period of 30 trading days is greater than 3%, the unit holder can redeem the units of Religare Nifty ETF directly from us, subject to the payment of 1% exit load," says Vetri Subramaniam, chief investment officer, Religare Invesco Mutual Fund .

The new investors who track this space actively may also get good trading opportunities. This can be done by buying ETFs from the market at a discount and getting it redeemed directly from the fund house or selling them back in the market as and when the discount narrows. Similarly, the investors who are holding ETFs that are quoting at a significant premium should exit immediately and buy them back later.
