
You must be a Registered User to print articles.

Register today for inside access to our thought-provoking coverage of the global financial markets!

Email address is required. A valid email address is required.

Password is required.

So far, trading in the commodities markets appears to be     largely unaffected by the Ukraine crisis — at least at first glance. Based on     Brent crude futures, oil prices are 1 percent lower than when     the tension between Russia and Ukraine erupted in late     February, despite Russia’s being the largest oil producer     in the world. Even in European natural gas, of which roughly 30     percent of supplies comes from Russia, prices have actually     tracked substantially lower despite some initial spikes in     early March as warm weather tamped demand. We see several     potential reasons for this. But the bigger picture is that     commodities traders haven’t been very concerned about     supply disruptions from Russia. The same is not true, however,     for traders in commodities that depend on Ukraine for a large     share of supply. Those commodities are wheat and corn .

If you want an outside gauge of whether the market is more     or less concerned about events in Russia and Ukraine, you can     look at wheat prices. Ukraine is a major supplier of grains:     The East European country represents on average roughly 7     percent of global wheat exports and 17 percent of global corn     exports. Since late February grain prices have responded to     nearly every up and down of the crisis (see chart 1). Wheat is     up 21 percent, and corn is up 10 percent.

So why are market participants more concerned about supply     disruptions from Ukraine? One reason is likely related to the     disruption of shipping through Ukrainian ports like the Black     Sea city of Odessa, an important hub for global grain exports.     Another reason may be the difficulties that both exporters and     farmers have faced obtaining financing to conduct their normal     operations. In addition, in the event of a Russian invasion, it     would seem reasonable for Ukrainian farmers or local     governments to hoard grain and food supplies.

What does this mean for future prices? Absent the events in     Crimea, we see the wheat and corn markets well supplied     globally. We see little evidence that this will change over the     coming several months. High grain prices during the past year     have led to large crops and the shoring up of global     inventories. There is no doubt that this year’s winter     wheat crop in the U.S. suffered some damage as the crop went     from winter dormancy to an excessively hot and dry spring     across the southern Great Plains states. Crop conditions in     Europe are much more normal, however. Corn planting is     progressing relatively slowly, but given the developing El     Niño weather pattern, we expect limited downside to     yields. El Niño years are associated with cooler and     wetter summers, which reduce the tail risk of a materially     smaller corn crop like last year’s.

The combined impact of weather conditions in the U.S. and     geopolitical uncertainty in the Black Sea region has resulted     in a large premium on U.S. grain prices. Compare, for example,     the FOB, or free-on-board, market prices(the cash offer at port     for global wheat). Australian offers for high-grade wheat are     approximately $60 per metric ton, or 20 percent cheaper than     the same grade of U.S. wheat. This shows how expensive the U.S.     offer has become to global buyers. We expect that over the     coming months, the risk premium embedded in U.S. as well as global grain prices is likely to recede as the forecast for the     U.S. wheat and corn yields becomes more certain.

Our forecast for falling grain prices over the next few     months assumes that the Russia-Ukraine situation doesn’t     escalate. How do we reflect this fundamental view in our     portfolios? Implied volatility from the wheat and corn options     market is below 30 percent, which is well under the average of     roughly the past five to 10 years. Since the end of February,     volatility has risen by roughly 3 percentage points, far less     than the impact on the outright price of the commodity.

Investors looking to take a view on the future price of     wheat or corn should do so through the options market. In this     case, we think that being long on wheat puts is a solid way to     implement our short wheat strategy.

Nicholas Johnson and Gillian Rutherford are both     portfolio managers focusing on commodities at PIMCO 's Newport Beach,     California, and London offices, respectively.

You must be a Registered User to comment.

Register today for inside access to our thought-provoking coverage of the global financial markets!

Email address is required. A valid email address is required.

Password is required.

© 2014 Institutional Investor LLC. All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws.
