
Allegiance Capital Corporation and Snelling have created a strategic alliance that provides Snelling clients easy, nationwide access to M&A services.

“Snelling is well known across the nation as a provider of premier staffing solutions.  However, we also know our clients need other critical services to meet a wide range of needs, and we are expanding to provide other services.  Partnering with Allegiance Capital provides us the unique capability to help business owners when they are making one of the most important business decisions they will ever make – when and how to sell their business or find high quality investors,” explains David Allen, Snelling’s CEO.

“When a Snelling client is ready to take their business to the next level, we want to be there to help, whether that involves staffing needs, or finding just the right investor. Allegiance Capital provides us a new strategic service that blends perfectly with our commitment to provide innovative services that meet and exceed client expectations,” Allen continues.

As the economy has grown and the baby boomer generation has aged, the number of businesses changing owners has increased rapidly.  According to a recent PricewaterhouseCoopers study, 25% of family-owned businesses will change ownership within the next five years. 65 percent of owners do not know what their company is worth, and an amazing 85 percent do not have an exit plan.

“We will provide Snelling’s clients valuable advice and guidance when they need additional funding to expand their business, or when they are ready to sell part or all of the business. Just as Snelling eliminates staffing issues for business owners, we eliminate financial barriers and assist owners who want to capitalize on the value currently tied up in their company.

The powerful partnership between Snelling and Allegiance Capital enables business owners nationwide to feel confident when they need assistance with important decisions about their business, because both companies are dedicated to helping business owners succeed,” Mahmood concludes.
