
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Taiwan-based Hua Nan Commercial Bank's (HNB) ratings, including its Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'BBB+'. The Outlook is Stable. A full list of rating actions is at the end of this rating action commentary.

The affirmation of HNB's IDRs and National ratings are driven by its Support  Rating (SR) and Support Rating Floor (SRF), which reflect the high probability  of support from the state given its systemic importance. This is evident in the  state's long-term and majority ownership (currently around 23%) in its parent,  Hua Nan Financial Holding Company, and the bank's leading franchise with the  third-largest branch network in Taiwan and a 5.7% deposit market share.

The Stable Outlook reflects Fitch's expectation that the state's ability and/or  propensity to support HNB will not weaken.

The bank's IDRs, National Ratings, SR and SRF are sensitive to any change in  assumptions around the ability or propensity of the state to provide timely  support to the bank. This would most likely be manifested in a change to  Taiwan's sovereign rating (A+/Stable) or a move towards full privatisation of  the bank.

The bank's VR primarily reflects its strong domestic franchise, particularly  among SMEs, ordinary support from the state and adequate capitalisation relative  to its moderate risk profile. While HNB's 11%-12% Fitch Core Capital ratio -  after adjusting for greater capital charges for mortgages in Taiwan - is  satisfactory compared with regional peers, its earnings are slightly weaker than  the peer average and its growth plan in China may weaken its capitalisation.

Excessive growth and aggressive M&A in China, leading to weaker capitalisation  and risk profile, is the most likely trigger for a VR downgrade. A VR upgrade  could occur if HNB can sustain higher profitability and stronger internal  capital generation in line with better-rated peers but without significantly  raising its risk appetite.

Short-Term IDR affirmed at 'F2'

National Short-Term rating affirmed at 'F1+(twn)'

Viability Rating affirmed at 'bbb-'

Support Rating affirmed at '2'

Support Rating Floor affirmed at 'BBB+'

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.
