
Can you give our readers an overview of your business today.

    The Premium income and growth factors in the marine insurance industry are very stagnant right now. And competition is quite heavy in all areas. In the U.S. market and in the marine market in general, there are new players. The London market has gotten more aggressive over here.

    To put it simply, there is not a big increase in marine transportation. (While there is a boom in the energy markets), a lot of the shale oil and gas is carried via pipeline and railroad car into various ports. (In short) today there are fewer, bigger ships.

    The Macondo oil spill is impacting pollution cover fairly heavily.

    BP made the decision to set up a $20B dollar fund and, as a response to the spill, to throw at it every resource that could be found, whether or not that resource was productive or efficient. They established in the minds of a lot of responders who were new to response, because we haven’t had a lot of big spills, an idea of how a spill response should be run. And the BP fund paid claims that are not required, per se, by law.

So today oil spill responses, especially in the areas of the Gulf and lower Mississippi River, are taking on a different kind of life and are becoming much more expensive because there is an overreaction in terms of resources being put on the spill. There is an increase in inefficiencies in the responses because people trip over each other. It’s just too much, and has built an expectation on the part of some parties that they deserve to be paid for claims that should not necessarily be paid.

    I think they had a terrible public relations problem. I think they handled it brilliantly. I think they did a very good job for their own interests. And so that’s why they reacted that way, and I would never criticize them for it.

    The trickle over is simply the expectation of people from the liability side of insurance that have damage, whether or not from an oil spill, potentially may be looking for payments of claims that would not historically have been paid.

We have always expected over time that costs, comparatively as all other inflatable items, would go up on a spill. But we’ve seen a jump of expectations. To give you an example, when the government sets up a command center you need to run a good command center 24/7 and you probably need 60 to 70 people. Today, command centers are being set up with 300 to 400 people.

And you just have to wonder what they are all doing. The Coast Guard officer who ran the Houston Astrodome evacuation after Katrina set up the emergency response, set up a shelter and hospital for approximately 25,000 displaced residents. He did it with 19 people. Because that’s what you need. You need an efficient organization in the command center, but that’s not how it works today. And you have to pay for all the people in the command center.

And that’s the way it’s evolving: everybody wants a piece of the spill. Everybody wants their input on the spill. They want to be in the command center where all of the action is.

Let’s discuss the price pressures you alluded to.

    The price pressures are not necessarily from the insured. Everybody would like to get the best deal, so of course you would like a reduction in your insurance payment, especially when you haven’t had a claim. But what we’re in is an insurer-driven price competition which is a little different. This is where insurers themselves would like a bigger piece of the market and may choose to write business at prices that, in the first instance don’t seem economic, in order to get a larger piece of the pie.

    The difficulty is that in a marine event, you can have Sue and Labor under the hull policy involved, you can have salvage involved, you can have removal of wreck involved, you can have cargo offloading to save cargo, and you can have pollution.

In the pollution world, you cover the threat of discharge or discharge. At what point does a vessel become a threat of pollution … where the pollution underwriter should respond rather than the hull or the P&I or the cargo insurer. So when you offload a cargo from a grounded barge, is that for cargo interest? Is that for pollution interest? Is that for hull interest to refloat the vessel? So we have a situation where portions of a pollution event could be covered by none of them or all of them.

And therein lies a grave difficulty. You are an insured. You have paid to place your insurance with three best insurance companies in the United States. Then an event occurs. There is no doubt that you are covered, but who’s going pay you? And that process of determining who is going to pay can take time, and you are not getting your money while that’s going on. So that is a problem for the industry that we are struggling to deal with.

So what about the new non-tank vessel rules and the new firefighting rules.

    Now you have a vessel response plan that is designed for how you’re going to deal with a discharge, or a threat of a discharge of oil. But now you have a second section then, how are you going to deal with firefighting. But in the insurance market, they are not all covered by one person. So there are some difficulties there in that, and it also causes the Coast Guard to consider it to be one event, whereas from an insurance perspective it’s multiple events. And now there are some issues regarding responder immunity. I won’t name names, but there are three different groups: one group is in favor of the responder immunity; one group is opposed to responder immunity; and there is a third group that doesn’t feel it is productive to reopen the OPA 90;They are scared to reopen the OPA. They may either agree with responder immunity, or disagree with responder immunity, but they feel that if Congress reopens OPA 90, it would not be limited to just responder immunity. And that’s one of the big things that’s coming out of firefighting salvage and all of that, and response to oil spills. There is a limited responder immunity in OPA for response organizations, but there is not the equivalent for firefighters and salvors.

And the environmental nature of this business has increased exponentially.

    A challenge would be an unknown change in the law. And that is what we are most susceptible to, as a challenge would be an event which causes the government to overreact and impose a different type of liability or different conditions of liability on the insured.

    I thought that after Macondo that Congress would act, but it did not. There are other issues in the United States today, which I’m not going to talk about, but there are other issues that have the attention of our government. And the environment is not a high priority in terms of statutorily changing the laws, nor is there a great need for it. The laws we have are working very well. But the challenge would be the next major event. That’s a challenge for us every year.

A second challenge is that the individual states are becoming more active. There are at least 19 states now that impose unlimited liability on the vessel; no cap on the liability. Delaware was the most recent to change their law. That’s a challenge for both response and for insurance.

    Well, let’s just simply say the most active.

    The west coast states historically. Florida is always a bit active. You never know with Massachusetts. But really the west coast states are the most active on these environmental issues, including Hawaii. And how are we addressing it? Well, we have a legal liaison on the west coast and he attends and sets up liaison with the government agencies and the legislatures. On the east coast we have a registered lobbyist in Washington, DC.

Just one more question: I saw you launched “Stories from the Sea Campaign,” which I found interesting because I would assume that the last thing that anybody involved with insurable events would want to do is tell a story about it.

    It has two purposes. One is education, and the other is engagement. Now, by engagement we want to get people to respond to us, because that’s a stronger impression, that’s a stronger involvement with WQIS’ name brand.

Education is that people misunderstand how their liability could arise. I like to tell this story when I give a speech. A grandfather decides to take his two grandchildren fishing on the Hudson River . He has a 14-ft. Zodiac inflat able boat . He paddles out, he’s got no engine. They’re fishing and having a good time. The youngest kid gets rambunctious and throws the paddles over the side, the oars. Downbound is an oil barge and a tug captain sees them floating in the middle of the stream. The tug captain makes a fateful decision – he decides not to kill them, because he sees the children and he runs the barge around. The grandfather is personally liable for $854,000 cleanup, which is the minimum liability for any vessel. And he is personally liable for that because he was the sole fault, 3rd party who caused the oil spill.
