
The bad news? Hampton Roads home sales have been down for four consecutive months compared to last year. The good news? Foreclosures and short sales continue to leave the market.

"Overall, the numbers appear to be bad but most of the decreases are due to a reduction in distressed sales," said economist Vinod Agarwal with Old Dominion University.

Although local real estate agents had expected 2014 to be slightly better for home sales than 2013, Hampton Roads has experienced a 6.4 percent decline in sales in January through April compared to the same time last year, according to the latest Hampton Roads based-Real Estate Information Network report. April saw a 2.5 percent drop compared to a year earlier.

Taking a closer look, short sales and bank-owned sales decreased by 18.2 percent, or from 1,657 in the first four months of 2013 to 1,356 the same time this year, he said. Meanwhile, sales of non-distressed properties remained flat at 3,709 in 2013 and 3,690 in 2014 during the same period.

Even so, Agarwal said the proportion of bank-owned and short sales needs to come below 10 percent of sales for a healthy market. They accounted for 18 percent of active home listings and 24 percent of sales in April. Notices of auctions and bank repossessions were down 24 percent in April from a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac, a California-based firm that distributes real estate information.

"At least it's going in the right direction," Agarwal said.

Earlier reports indicated that unprecedented snow may have led to a slow start for the year and Agarwal agreed weather played some part. The region is not alone, as economists had predicted that 2014 would be a better year for home sales nationwide, but existing home sales were down 7.5 percent in March nationwide from a year earlier, according to the National Association of Realtors.

Research released Monday from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco cited a relative increase in mortgage rates as a reason for the slowdown in U.S. home sales. According to Freddie Mac's survey last week, the average 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was 4.2 percent compared to 3.51 percent a year earlier.

Agarwal said this could affect some prospective buyers' ability to borrow money for their homes, but he noted that mortgage rates are still pretty low. The Fed's report also indicated that investors may be retreating from housing markets as home values rise.

That was seen somewhat in Hampton Roads, where non-lender investors who have bought at least 10 properties in the last year accounted for 4.9 percent of sales in last year's first quarter compared to 1.4 percent of sales the first quarter this year, according to RealtyTrac. The median sales price in April ticked up 1.9 percent in April compared to a year earlier, according to REIN.

Banks could also not be giving as deep discounts as before on distressed properties, Agarwal said.

Bozick can be reached by phone at 757-247-4741. Sign up for a free weekday business news email at TidewaterBiz.com.
