
ACROSS MISSISSIPPI — Frequent rains kept farmers indoors through much of April, but clear weather in early May allowed them to play catch-up on row-crop planting.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture reported that planting of most of the state’s row crops is back on schedule after the wet early spring. Corn is the first crop planted in Mississippi and much of it was planted on schedule. As of May 11, USDA reported cotton is 45 percent planted, rice is 68 percent planted, grain sorghum is 42 percent planted and soybean is 55 percent planted.

With the exception of grain sorghum, which is still running behind schedule, each of these commodities is on track with historic planting dates.

“Producers were finally able to get in a rhythm last week,” said Alex Deason, Mississippi State University Extension Service agent in Sunflower County.

Darrin Dodds, Extension cotton specialist, said most of the cotton in the state was planted in May.

Cotton’s ideal planting window is from the third week of April to mid-May, so the crop is still on schedule.

“This year, planting will push a little outside that, but if we get some decent weather, it won’t make us too crazy,” he said.

Cotton should be planed on about 400,000 acres in Mississippi this year, well up from the 280,000 acres harvested last year, but still only about half the acreage seen in the past.

“Producers are worried about getting behind, but if we can get the rest of the crop in the ground in the next week or 10 days, we’ll see that optimism come back and we’ll start to deal with the challenges as they present themselves over the summer,” Dodds said.

Bobby Golden, Mississippi Agricultural and Forestry Experiment Station agronomist at Stoneville, said the state basically has two rice crops about a month apart.

This year’s acreage is expected to exceed what was planted in 2013. He said producers seem optimistic even with the crop being planted slightly later than usual.

More than half the state’s grain sorghum acreage is typically planted by this time, but Erick Larson, Extension grain agronomist, said growers should have ample opportunity to plant this crop if the weather allows further progress.

“Sorghum actually needs a little warmer soil temperatures than soybeans need, and waiting a bit later to plant gives you an opportunity for a better stand,” Larson said.

The state should have more than 100,000 acres of sorghum this year, which is higher than it has been in recent years.

Larson said he expects more sorghum will be planted when cotton and soybean planting winds down, and a few acres may go in after wheat is harvested.

Trent Irby, Extension soybean specialist, said the first full week of May made a huge difference in soybean planting progress.

Soybean, the state’s largest row crop, is expected to cover over 2.1 million acres this year. While early-planted soybean has the best chance of success, the crop has a huge planting window and can be planted as late as early July and still succeed. Irby said soybean planting was behind normal in April, but favorable weather during May will keep planting progress on track.

To sign up for Mississippi Business Daily Updates, click here .

Our annual "Come See Us" magazine offers ideas for spots in Mississippi ranging from golf to culture to history to food. Click the photo for ideas, stories and access to the digital edition of this year's magazine.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
