
UNIT4, the global leader in software that supports business change, announced today that it has moved into the Leaders quadrant in the Nucleus Research Technology Value Matrix for Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) H1 2014 based on its people-centric approach to ERP and investments in cloud, mobile, analytics and social technologies.

The company plans further investment in these areas following its recent acquisition by Advent International , one of the largest and most experienced global investment groups dedicated solely to private equity. Nucleus Research states: "The ability of vendors to drive penetration strategies in different key areas is evolving... With a mix of publicly-traded, privately-held, and recently-funded players across the quadrants of the Matrix, Nucleus expects to see some without the quarterly constraints of the stock market take advantage of that flexibility to make some very focused short-term investments to capture market share..."

The Value Matrix is based on functionality and usability, the two core measures that Nucleus has found indicate an application's ability to deliver initial return on investment and, ultimately, maximum value over time.

UNIT4's recently released new generation cloud ERP Suite, Milestone 4, focuses on the user experience offering Experience Packs, designed to enable targeted upgrades of functionality without the usual disruption for customers. The company continues to invest heavily in both vertical and horizontal functionality, including multitenant cloud capabilities, advanced mobile support and user experience including integrated analytics and social collaboration capabilities.

FinancialForce.com, the cloud ERP company majority owned by UNIT4, is also listed as a Leader in the matrix for the first time based on its growth, both organically, and by acquisition over the past six months. It offers a unified suite of applications based on the Salesforce1 platform.

There is nothing 'magic' about the Nucleus Research Value Matrix, which categorizes vendors according to usability and functionality. This determines which solutions provide the most value to organizations, helping with technology and business decisions. Nucleus issues the Value Matrix twice a year. For more information, go to Nucleus Research .

UNIT4 is a global cloud-focused business software and services company aimed at helping dynamic public sector and commercial services organizations to embrace change simply, quickly and cost effectively. The Group incorporates a number of the world's leading change embracing software brands including UNIT4 Agresso, our flagship ERP suite for mid-sized and large services intensive organizations; UNIT4 Coda Financials, our best-of-class financial management software; and FinancialForce.com, the cloud applications company formed with investment from salesforce.com.
