
In absence of opposition benches, the Punjab Assembly on Monday passed a resolution to express solidarity with the armed forces. Punjab Law Minister Rana Sanaullah tabled a resolution that stated that this House expresses complete solidarity with the armed forces. "In the times of peace and war, Pakistan army's services are matter of pride for the nation. The way it has protected the borders of Pakistan and fought against terrorism is praiseworthy. The House also pays homage to its martyrs," it added.

Through the resolution, the House condemned all efforts of making state institutions controversial for political gains, and showed a firm resolve to defeat the nefarious objectives of those elements involved in condemnable activities. Initially, PML-Q parliamentarian Moonis Elahi had requested Acting Speaker Sardar Sher Ali Gorchani to let him table a resolution in the support of the Pakistan army, but he was denied the opportunity, since the government had its own intention of tabling a similar resolution.

The Acting Speaker urged the son of PML-Q leader Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi to wait till the question-hour session is over. He also advised him to team up with Punjab Law Minister Rana Sanaullah to draft a joint resolution, since the government is also intending to table a similar resolution, and thus the House can pass a unanimous resolution. "Even in the absence of the opposition benches, the resolution will be tabled," he said.

However, Moonis Elahi refused the offer on the pretext that since both resolutions are of similar nature, they should be given the opportunity first and the government can table its resolution tomorrow. Moonis Elahi's request had no affect on the Acting Speaker who resumed with the question-answer session.

After a hue and cry, the PML-Q boycotted the House's proceedings and it was joined by Leader of the Opposition Mahmoodur Rasheed, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and Pakistan People's Party (PPP). Meanwhile, Rana Sanaullah jumped in and taunted the PML-Q by saying that they are not tabling the resolution, in support of the army, to get a 'job'.

After the question-session hour, Moonis Elahi returned to the House and requested the Acting Speaker to fulfil his commitment of allowing him to table the joint resolution, but he was flatly refused on the pretext that he had earlier turned down the Acting Speaker's offer by boycotting the House. In protest the son of PML-Q leader Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi, joined by other opposition benchers, walked out of the House, leaving a torn copy of the joint resolution behind.

Meanwhile, the Punjab Law Minister also introduced Khwaja Fareed University of Engineering and Information Technology, Rahim Yar Khan Bill 2014, before the House, which was referred to the standing committee. Later, the Acting Speaker adjourned the House till Tuesday morning.
