
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am the Editorial Director for BNK Invest, where I oversee the production of all editorial content. I have been involved in web related ventures and small online businesses for over ten years. I hold a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Michigan and a Masters of Science from NYU.

Topping the list of stocks with abnormal volume in yesterday’s trading is Rackspace Hosting Rackspace Hosting ( NYSE: RAX ), with 9.3x normal volume. In the prior session, RAX traded 28.21 million shares, versus normal volume of approximately 3.03 million. On the 12th, Rackspace Hosting announced financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. Net revenue for the first quarter of 2014 was $421 million, up 3.2% from the previous quarter and 16% from the first quarter of 2013. Net revenue for the first quarter of 2014 was positively impacted by currency exchange rates when compared to the previous quarter by $2.4 million and positively impacted when compared to the first quarter of 2013 by $6.6 million. Rackspace is a leader in managed cloud and founder of OpenStack, the open-source operating system for the cloud. Hundreds of thousands of customers look to Rackspace to deliver the best-fit infrastructure for their IT needs, leveraging a product portfolio that allows workloads to run where they perform best-whether on the public cloud, private cloud, dedicated servers, or a combination of platforms.

Coming in at #2, Nordstrom Nordstrom ( NYSE: JWN ) saw 5.5x normal trading volume, with volume of 8.39 million shares versus the usual 1.53 million. On the 15th, Nordstrom reported earnings per diluted share of $0.72 for the first quarter ended May 3, 2014, which exceeded the Company’s prior outlook of $0.60 to $0.70. The Company continued its progress in executing its customer strategy while maintaining disciplined execution around inventory and expenses. Nordstrom is one of the leading fashion specialty retailers based in the U.S. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, Nordstrom operates 270 stores in 36 states, including 117 full-line stores, 150 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store.

Looking for abnormal volume stand-outs, we comb through the closing trading data for the Russell 1000 components, to find these stand-outs that traders will be interested to watch during Monday’s upcoming session. To compile the list (see below), we first calculate “normal” volume for each stock by computing the average over the trailing three month period, and then we compare that figure against the volume seen during the session.

Coming in at #3, Dillard's Dillard's ( NYSE: DDS ) saw 4.2x normal trading volume, with volume of 2.67 million shares versus the usual 639,083. Dillard’s conducted its annual meeting of shareholders in Little Rock, Arkansas with Dillard’s Chief Executive Officer, William Dillard, II, presiding. During the meeting, Mr. Dillard reflected on Dillard’s favorable financial results, particularly highlighting the balance sheet improvement over the last five years. Mr. Dillard noted the Company had returned over $1.7 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases over that term. Mr. Dillard stated that the Company should continue to generate more cash than is required for operations in the future. He stated that Dillard’s expects to continue to return excess cash to shareholders.

And finally, Darden Restaurants Darden Restaurants ( NYSE: DRI ) ranked #5 on the list, with 3.4x normal volume, seeing about 4.74 million shares change hands, compared to normal volume of 1.41 million. Fitch Ratings has affirmed Darden Restaurants ratings and removed the ratings from Rating Watch Negative.
