
Houston-headquartered Baker Hughes Inc., a major oilfield equipment supply company, has opened its new 305,000 square-foot education center in Tomball, north of Houston, Texas. The primary purpose of the Western Hemisphere Education Center campus is to provide a central training center for the company, which previously used seven different training centers in different locations, Baker Hughes told Rigzone. The new center will also be a facility for major corporate activities and meetings.

The educational center, which cost nearly $56 million, has a three-story, 90,000 square-foot educational building with space for 21 classrooms initially; another six in the planning stages, the company said in a press release. The center also contains a 17,000-square-foot laboratory, as well as training spaces and workshops for electrical and mechanical training.

Workers across all product lines will be able to cross-train at the center, which will also help prepare workers for field work on rigs and wells with two oil training wells. One of the wells is a 1,000-foot vertical well, and the other is for training in horizontal drilling.

Another six wells are located in the gantry area of the yard, including four 1,000-foot wells used by Baker Hughes’ Wireline Services group, and two additional wells that are used by the Artificial Lift and Sand Control training teams.

The facility also contains a training rig that sits over a 1,600-foot well; another rig that will sit over a 2,000-foot well is being planned, Baker Hughes told Rigzone.

As many as 5,500 trainees are expected each month. The training center will enable oil well employees to train around the clock, and seeks to replicate an actual experience on a rig.

Baker Hughes’ Eastern Hemisphere Education Center is located in Dubai.

Generated by readers, the comments included herein do not reflect the views and opinions of Rigzone. All comments are subject to editorial review. Off-topic, inappropriate or insulting comments will be removed.

Your comments have been received and will be posted after being reviewed. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.

Thank you for your continuing innovations and business model.
