
Elite Exports is a Mexican company dedicated to the export of conventional and organic mangoes of the Athaulf, Kent and Haden varieties. Their fruit has numerous quality and phytosanitary certifications, including Global GAP and BioAgriCert (for the organic ones).

The company exports four-kilo boxes of mangoes exclusively by air to Europe. The company avoids many problems with this shipping method, which is more expensive because, "the fruit's quality is guaranteed when it is sent by air, unlike when it is sent by sea, where one can't ensure the integrity of the shipping container," said Nadia Stephanie Martinez from Elite Exports.

The production of Kent mangoes runs from June to August, while the Haden and Athaulf varieties are available until September. "The Athaulf is a softer variety, with a bittersweet taste and less fibre, which makes it lighter than the Kent and the Haden varieties. Even though Europe still prefers the Kent variety, the Ataulfo's characteristics, as well as its early harvest, have great potential for growth in this market," says Nadia.

This year, the Ataulfo season, which usually starts in mid-May, will begin later than expected. The fruit will come from Michoacan, Sinaloa and Nayarit, which have recorded high temperatures, so there's a chance all of the production will be harvested before the hurricane season starts.

Usually, the Mexican campaign in Europe coincides with that of South Africa, whose fruit is already available, although the African country has a shorter season. "Their campaign ends in late June or early July, which opens the best window of opportunity for the Mexican product," says Nadia.

Regarding prices, the company works with the Mexico City's airport's FOB as well as with the CIF from European airports such as Holland, Paris and Spain. Nadia explained that, "we can not offer the same price as South Africa because their logistics have much lower costs, but we try to offer reasonable prices that warrant the quality of the mangoes. To this end, we make agreements with logistics companies to maintain a fixed rate that gives us the freedom to be more competitive in this area."

The company's goal is to export a minimum of five to ten pallets a week per client; clients that have the freedom of choosing the degree of maturity they want their mangoes to be, how many pieces of fruit per box they desire, and under what brand they want them. "We adapt ourselves to our clients' needs, and this, together with the high quality of our product, is one of our greatest competitive advantages," concluded Nadia Stephanie Martinez.
