
Marlborough's Renaissance Brewing is thinking big, and is looking to everyday Kiwi investors to help drive its plans to fruition.

The firm is raising funds through equity crowdfunding platform The Snowball Effect, which aims to help New Zealand businesses by raising growth capital through sales of very small share lots to many people.

Equity crowdfunding is catching on worldwide, and The Snowball Effect has been gathering momentum since amendments to the Financial Markets Conduct Act in April, which made it easier for small to medium-size companies to raise money.

Renaissance Brewing Marlborough development manager Roger Kerrison said they planned to invest any money raised through the platform to improve the brewery and develop overseas markets.

"We want new tanks, to expand and improve the brewery and expand and launch into export markets.

"We are future-proofing ourselves to the ability to ship containers overseas . . . we have already moved forward in various other aspects of the business but there are a few little bottlenecks we need to open up, but we are not far away from that at all."

Kerrison said they already had containers being shipped overseas, they just wanted to send more.

"We have interest and opportunities to send more to various export markets like Scandinavia, Japan, and the UK is going to come on stream."

Marlborough does not have a strong local market for craft beer when compared to Wellington and Auckland markets, he said,

"So to continue to be successful we have to become a successful export product.

"Our focus for growth is going to be predominantly export markets and we currently export to eight different countries and we will, I suspect by the end of next year, be probably looking to double that."

Head brewer Andy Deuchars said he would be happy if they simply raised enough money to buy some new tanks.

"While they are shaped like beer tanks they are made by a wine manufacturer to wine tank specifications, they are not proper ones like the big one," Deuchars said.

"What we need is more of those big ones. A proper brewing tank to modern brewing tank specifications, insulated, jacketed and of a leverage that would be worthwhile."

With one large tank costing $10,000 they hoped to be able to "at least change out the small tanks to the larger ones", Deuchars said.

"That's my hope as a brewer. That and upgraded bottling equipment . . . it's adequate to the tasks now but not adequate to what we want."

The craft beer renaissance was now in full bloom, he said.

"When we started in 2005 we pretty much brewed once a month and that was all we could sell and now we are bursting at the seams."
