
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Fertilizer and ammonia manufacturer AM Agrigen Industries said Monday it is considering building a $1.2 billion plant on the west bank of St. Charles Parish . Feasibility studies have begun, and the company said it expects to make its final investment decision during the first quarter of 2015.

"We have been very pleased with the support we have received from the state of Louisiana and from St. Charles Parish, GNO Inc. and the Port of South Louisiana," chief executive Mark VandeVoorde said. The Delaware-registered AM Agirgen Industries has secured options to buy 650 acres near Killona and started the process for filing for environmental permits.

The plant would create 150 new jobs with an average annual salary of $55,000 per year plus benefits. Louisiana Economic Development estimates the project would result in an additional 1,025 jobs, for a total of 1,175 new jobs in the state.

The state began working with the company on the project in October 2012. Louisiana offered AM Agrigen Industries a performance-based $5.6 million grant to offset infrastructure costs. The Economic Development Department said the company would receive workforce assistance and could use the state's Quality Jobs and industrial tax exemption programs.

"AM Agrigen's commitment to our state demonstrates the strategic value of Louisiana's world-scale industrial infrastructure and our emergence as one of the very best business climates in the U.S.," Gov. Bobby Jindal said. "From Sasol in southwest Louisiana to Benteler Steel/Tube in northwest Louisiana and Dyno Nobel in southeast Louisiana, global investors are infusing tremendous amounts of capital into our state's manufacturing sector because of Louisiana's welcoming business environment and strong workforce. As this project crystallizes, we look forward to the creation of more highly skilled jobs that build ever-increasing career opportunities for the families of Louisiana."

. . . . . . .

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check your inbox, and approve the verification email. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
