
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

A: Many companies are still coming to terms with the many challenges that the recession caused with reduced sales, continuing expense control and having sufficient capital to remain in business. In areas such as construction, which is slowly coming back, finding a quality labor force is challenging because many skilled laborers left the area.

Finding access to capital when historical cash flows, which traditional lenders rely on, has diminished. A perfect example are all those retailers who were impacted by the massive construction in regard to the street car.

Staying relevant to the many changes in how to do business. For example, using social media when the younger demographic buys far different than the boomer generation.

Many waited too long to lay off staff. It was well-intended, but in so many cases, letting a few employees go could have saved a number of employees' jobs during the downturn in the economy.

A: While I'm not an economist, I can tell you from my firsthand experience that the economy is turning, albeit slowly. That may not be a bad thing in that many businesses learned to be lean and mean during the recession and the longer they hold onto that philosophy, the better their chances to fully recover and even flourish.

, we are seeing a large increase in the number of new businesses, expansions of current businesses and more companies reaching out cautiously to again grow.

A: We are very proud of this accomplishment and I can definitely say it started with our vision and strategic plan.

We had, according to focus groups I held when I first took this position in 2012, been viewed as only working with start-ups. While this is definitely an area we address, what it missed is that we work with companies of all sizes that fit within the SBA criteria. In its broadest sense, although there are exceptions, that means we work with companies up to 500 employees. This represents the majority of companies within the communities we serve. So we purposely set out, in an aggressive outreach campaign, to work with the banking community who could best assist with access to capital.

in mixed capital, and everything in between.

, feel more inclined to work with clients who work with the SBDC. That is because we continue the relationship to help ensure the clients find success after obtaining capital and work with them on ongoing profitability, exactly what the lenders want to see.

A: The No. 1 thing I can say is that profit is not the same as cash. Business owners, first of all, tend to focus on the top line, revenues. They should be concentrating on the bottom line, profit. And it doesn't stop there. A company can have profit and not have cash. For example, if a company takes credit and accrues a large accounts receivable, they could be very profitable. However, if a lot of their profit is sitting in accounts receivable, they don't have cash. What we've seen a lot is that this can then handcuff their cash and oftentimes they can't meet payroll. Having money owed and money in the bank are two very different things.

Also, companies that have more than one product or service often look at the combined financial statements and see a profit, when in fact, often one or more of those products or services is a loss. So it is important that they set up their QuickBooks or accounting system in such a manner to be able to view the profitability of each and every revenue stream.

I mentioned earlier about having the right size staff. It's interesting that this can work in two ways. If sales are down, not downsizing soon enough can put other staff at risk.

per hour activities, thus increasing revenues and decreasing expense. I like to refer to this as the small business owner doing what is their "highest and best use".

A: You have to have a business plan. I tell every aspiring business owner, you always do this first. That is because a business plan will show the feasibility of the new business. The prospective new business owner will be contributing valuable time, talent and resources such as their savings and other assets to make a go of this potential business. A business plan helps vet the idea.

Find a strong mentor or counselor. Many do not know of the SBDC and that we provide no cost, one-on-one counseling so folks are not alone. There are resources available. Take advantage of these resources to have someone help you vet your project. Their expertise and experience will help you challenge your idea to be sure it has merit.
