
Motorcyclists may soon be fined VND100,000-200,000 (US$5-10) if found wearing substandard helmets.The helmets, including some described as "eggshells", would then be destroyed.

In a recommendation by the National Traffic Safety Committee, traffic police would be empowered to seize substandard helmets from motorbike riders.

According to the plan, which would come into operation on June 15, traffic police would at first stop riders wearing substandard helmets and warn them.

Localities have been ordered to warn those making and selling substandard helmets.

HCM City's Traffic Safety Committee said it planned to begin a month long programme to help people understand the difference between safe and unsafe products.

Under regulations, all helmets must meet national standards. All must conform to set technical and safety requirements and have efficient padding to absorb shock.

In addition, all helmets must be stamped with the letters "CR" (conforms with regulations).

Nguyen Anh Son, 24, said he recently bought a helmet worth only VND 30,000 ($1.50) in Kim Nguu Street.

Son said he knew it was poor-quality, but he still bought because he felt it was lighter and more comfortable than the standard helmet he was wearing.

Dao Hai Yen, 23, admitted that she wore a substandard helmet because it looked more fashionable, but said she would wear a safety one in future to avooid being fined.

Viet Nam has more than 37 million registered motorbikes.

More than 100 photos along with numerous books and newspapers featuring the life and revolutionary activities of late President Ho Chi Minh are on display in Paris, France, on the occasion of his 124th birthday which falls on May 19.

As part of activities within the framework of the Vietnam Year in France, the exhibition, jointly held by the Ho Chi Minh Museum and the Vietnam Cultural Centre in France, was opened on May 17.

The exhibition aims to introduce the Vietnamese community in France and international friends the life and work of late President Ho Chi Minh as well as his attention to cultural heritage in the world and Vietnam in particular.

The exhibition, which lasts until June 4, is also to highlight the beauty of Vietnam and its people, cultural and natural heritage examples recognised by the UNESCO and the country’s policies on preserving and bringing into play their values.

A ceremony to mark President Ho Chi Minh’s birthday was held on May 18 by the Vietnamese Embassy in Algeria with the participation of the Vietnamese community and representatives from Vietnamese agencies there.

On this occasion, Ambassador Vu The Hiep and representatives of the Vietnamese community in Algeria laid a wreath at Ho Chi Minh Avenue in the capital city of Algiers.

On May 17, the Vietnamese Embassy in the UK paid floral tribute to President Ho Chi Minh in front of the New Zealand House building (formerly the London Carlton Hotel where the President worked during his years in seeking a way to save the country).

At the event, representatives of the embassy announced Vinh city, central Nghe An province and Newhaven town of the UK’s East Sussex county will sign a twinning agreement on May 25. Newhaven was the first stop of President Ho Chi Minh when he arrived in the UK in 1913.

The Vietnamese community in South Africa on May 18 held a get-together in Pretoria to mark the 124th birthday of President Ho Chi Minh.

Addressing the event, Vietnamese Ambassador Le Huy Hoang described late President Ho Chi Minh as a symbol of the national freedom and independence as well as international friendship and solidarity.

He urged the Vietnamese community to continue making more contributions to promoting the Vietnam-South Africa friendship and cooperation.

He also updated the participants with the current situation in the East Sea, as well as the rising tension caused by China’s illegal placement of its oil rig deep inside Vietnam’s exclusive economic zone and continental shelf.

A fishing boat from the central province of Quang Ngai was attacked by a Chinese fisheries administration ship on May 16 when it was operating in the traditional fishing ground in Hoang Sa (Paracel) archipelago.

According to Pham Van On, chief of the Office of the provincial Steering Board for Flood and Storm Control and Search and Rescue, China’s ship 306 attacked boat QNg 90205-TS and beat the Vietnamese fishermen. Two of the 12 fishermen on board the victim boat suffered from serious injuries. Crew members on the Chinese ship also damaged and took away all properties on the Vietnamese fishing boat.

After being assailed, the boat, captained by Nguyen Van Quang from Binh Son district, managed to escape and then get medical assistance from Vietnam’s coast guard vessels, he said, adding it is now on the way back to the land.

Previously, on May 7, fishing boat QNg 96416-TS, captained and owned by Nguyen Van Loc from An Vinh commune, Ly Son district, Quang Ngai province, was chased and rammed by a Chinese ship in the Hoang Sa area, suffering from damage to its sides and cabin.

Also on May 7, fishing boat QNg 96147, captained by Duong Van Giau from An Hai commune, Ly Son district, was chased by a Chinese military ship.

People from the Chinese ship got on the Vietnamese boat and beat fishermen on board, destroying all communications equipment and robbing the fishermen of all their catches.

Over recent time, many fishing boats from Quang Ngai were chased and harassed by Chinese ships in Hoang Sa waters and fishermen were taken captive illegally by the Chinese side, while their properties and catches as well as equipment on their boats seized.

Despite a disadvantage in number, Vietnam’s fisheries surveillance members on duty at the area where China is illegally positioning rig Haiyang Shiyou-981 are determined to overcome all difficulties and do their best to firmly safeguard national sea and island sovereignty.

Phan Dinh Cat, an official of the fisheries surveillance authority, said the Chinese side has used many kinds of ships to conduct threatening and provocative acts targeting Vietnam’s fisheries surveillance vessels, such as firing water cannons and ramming, but the Vietnamese ships consistently implement the policy of using peaceful counter- measures and resolutely protect the country’s sea and island sovereignty.

“Vietnam’s law enforcement forces at sea will bravely and resolutely overcome all difficulties and fulfil all missions to firmly safeguard the fatherland’s sacred sovereignty in any situation,” Cat said.

“We are determined to protect the fatherland’s sea and island sovereignty by staying at the site and continuing with propaganda and protest measures, thus supporting the diplomatic struggle to demand China to withdraw their illegal oil rig out of Vietnam’s waters,” Vu Duc Tao, head of the Fisheries Surveillance Team 4 told a Vietnam News Agency reporter who is on board a fisheries surveillance vessel at the site.

The Ministry of Public Security has ordered public security officials in units and localities on May 18 to take immediate and effective measures to prevent illegal demonstrations, disorder and security disruptions throughout the country.

The ministry’s instruction came in response to the prime minister’s directives dated May 15 and 17 on reinforcing national order and security and resolutely putting an end to illegal protests.

Local security forces have promptly implemented all necessary measures and co-operated with the security guard teams of offices and companies to ensure absolute safety and security for industrial zones and foreign-invested enterprises.

According to initial reports by provincial and municipal public security officials, as of 11am on May 18, order and security have been reinforced throughout the country, with no more cases of disruptive actions. People have fully grasped the PM’s request not to participate in illegal demonstrations, while production activities in processing and industrial zones and foreign invested companies have returned to normal.

The Ministry of Finance has also issued a telegram asking for immediate measures to support damaged enterprises and ensure their normal business production, contributing to stabilising workers’ lives.

Rescuers in the northern province of Ha Giang yesterday found the bodies of four people missing after a rockslide in Meo Vac District, increasing the death toll by five.

The rockslides occurred late Friday in the construction site of Nho Que 2 Hydropower Plant when a large amount of 25,000-cubic metre stone fell down, killing one on the spot and injuring five others. Four people went missing after the rockslide. The five injured are still undergoing treatment in the district's general hospital.

All the victims are workers of the Song Da Construction and Investment Joint-stock Company, working at the concrete mixing station for the hydropower plant.

The People's Committee of the Meo Vac District has allotted to the families of the victims an amount of VND30 million (US$1,400) each.

In what researchers are calling a breakthrough vaccine with huge potential, a H5N1 avian flu virus vaccine developed by Vietnamese epidemiologists is scheduled to be available by the end of the year.

The vaccine, co-produced by scientists from the Company for Production of Vaccines and Biologicals No. 1 and the National Institute for Hygiene and Epidemiology (NIHE), was first tested on animals and later on adult volunteers.

Following 10 years of research and testing, results show that the vaccine is highly effective and safe for human use, demonstrating promising results to combat the highly contagious and often deadly disease.

Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has officially declared May 18 as Vietnam Science and Technology Day to honour scientists for their great contributions to national construction and development.

On June 18 2013, the Vietnamese National Assembly (NA) passed the Law on Science and Technology in which May 18 is annually observed as Vietnam Science and Technology Day.

In his speech at a May 18 ceremony in Hanoi to announce the day, PM Nguyen Tan Dung said development and application of science and technology is the top national policy and one of the most important drivers of socio-economic development and national protection.

The Science and Technology Day aims not only to honour outstanding scientists and scientific and technological achievements but also to broaden scientific knowledge, raise awareness and inspire passion and creative labour among the people especially younger generations, Dung said.

He suggested that science and technology should be focused on boosting national industrialization and modernization and developing scientific areas of Vietnam’s strength such as mathematics, physics and life science associated with marine science.

The government leader also proposed setting up a number of scientific and technological research institutes and universities based on global advanced models.

Apart from the state budget, it is necessary to mobilize social resources especially from enterprises to intensify scientific and technological application in production and business.

Dung also underlined the need to improve mechanisms and policies aiming to attract Vietnamese scientists from abroad as well as encourage foreign experts to become involved in scientific and technological cooperation with Vietnam.

The Government leader used the occasion to present the Independence Order, first class to the Ministry of Science and Technology in recognition of its remarkable contributions to national development.

Since January 2014, as many as 9,011 people have been infected by dengue fever in 42 provinces and cities across from the country, including five fatal cases, according to the Health Ministry.

The deadly victims were from HCM City and the southern provinces of Ca Mau, Binh Duong and Binh Phuoc. Most dengue patients were recorded in southern localities (83.8%) and the central region (12.9%).

The Health Ministry’s Preventive Medicine Department on May 18 warned of the spread of the disease, which may result in a rising number of fatalities in regional countries in the coming time.

In Vietnam, the number of dengue infections has declined by 38.3% since the beginning of this year, but is predicted to rise in the future unless preventive measures are intensified.

The Health Ministry has taken a score of measures against dengue epidemic and other infectious diseases, such as hand-foot-mouth and measles. Apart from providing medical check-up and timely treatment, local authorities and relevant agencies have paid due attention to quarantine, sterilization and sanitation to stamp out these dangerous diseases.

Since the beginning of this year, the Central Highland province of Lam Dong has reported 140 suspected cases of measles, including 16 tested samples proving positive for the deadly virus.

Many measles infections were detected in Dam Rong district, which is home to a large number of ethnic minority people.

Lam Dong is among 11 provinces at high risks of a measles epidemic. At present, the fatal disease has been found in 46 communes of 10 districts in the province, despite numerous preventive measures taken by local authorities and relevant agencies.

Tran Thi Thu Huong, Deputy Director of the provincial Department for Preventive Medicine, said more than 8,000 local children have been vaccinated against measles. Lam Dong is also actively coordinating with the education sector to provide training on measles prevention and control at schools, she added.

Authorities in Ha Long City in the northern province of Quang Ninh will move 143 out of 462 houseboats on Ha Long Bay to a new resettlement area on Thursday.

The Ha Long City People's Committee has completed 364 resettlement apartments in a fishing village in Ha Phong Ward, said committee vice-chairman Pham Hong Ha.

Each apartment is between 77.5 to 128sq.m in size, he said, adding that infrastructure such as roads, water supply, irrigation and electricity had been completed.

Resettled workers, many of whom are involved in fishing, will be supported by suitable policies, Ha said. In 2012-13, the committee opened two training courses on aquaculture and net-knitting for 70 people who were moved earlier.

Ha Long City has resolved to relocate all houseboats on Ha Long Bay before June 30 to help tackle worsening pollution in the bay, a world natural heritage site, Ha said.

There are 626 private houseboats in Ha Long Bay, home to more than 2,100 people. Of the 462 households who are registered residents of Ha Long City, 364 will be moved inland under the project.

Of the rest, some already have houses inland, while those who are not registered as city residents will have to move without financial support from the city.

Chairman of the Presidential Office Dao Viet Trung on May 18 handed over the President’s gifts to coast guard and fishery administration officers and soldiers who are on duty in the country’s exclusive economic zone and continental shelf.

Trung conveyed President Sang’s praise of the forces’ efforts and determination to safeguard the country’s sovereignty and sovereign rights at sea, saying the State leader believes that they will continue overcoming difficulties and hardships and implementing synchronous measures to request China to withdraw its illegal drilling rig from Vietnam ’s waters.

Representatives of the forces pledged to fulfill assigned tasks, resolutely struggling for the national sea and island sovereignty.

According to Major General Nguyen Quang Dam, Commander of the Vietnam Coast Guard, China is maintaining 127 vessels, including 2-4 military ships, around the area where it stationed the rig.

The Chinese forces have intentionally rammed into and caused damage to Vietnam ’s law enforcement ships in the Vietnamese waters.

To deal with the situation, the Vietnamese forces have tried to avoid clashes with the Chinese side and patiently implemented measures on the basis of Vietnamese and international laws.

Deputy Director of the Fisheries Surveillance Department Nguyen Van Trung reported that 12 ships were damaged and nine inspectors injured during Chinese ships’ attack.

The Vietnam Buddhist Sangha (VBS) on May 18 held a ceremony in Quang Duc Zen Monastery to commemorate Bodhisattva Thich Quang Duc, who set himself on fire 51 years ago to protest against the repression of Buddhists by the American-supported Saigon government.

At the event, Buddhist monks and nuns and followers praised the great sacrifice and patriotism of Bodhisattva Thich Quang Duc, as well as prayed for peace for people in Vietnam and around the world.

Representatives from the Buddhist Sangha Executive Board urged Vietnamese Buddhists to exert themselves to further develop the VBS, and promote the patriotic tradition and the links between Buddhism and the nation.

Most Venerable Thich Quang Duc was born as Lam Van Tuat in Van Ninh district, the central province of Khanh Hoa, in 1897.

He actively joined Buddhist movements for religious freedom and equality in the southern region. On June 11, 1963, when a procession of over 800 Buddhist monks, nuns and followers arrived at the intersection of Phan Dinh Phung boulevard (now Nguyen Dinh Chieu Street) and Le Van Duyet Street (now Cach Mang Thang Tam Street) in Sai Gon (now Ho Chi Minh City), Thich Quang Duc soaked himself in petrol, struck a match and set himself on fire.

He was honoured as a Bodhisattva in 1964 after the unified VBS came into being.

The Ministry of Finance has said in a recent guideline that will support farmers buying agricultural machinery.

It will provide them loans at zero interest for two years and at half the market rate for the next year.

Farmers can borrow up to 70 percent of the cost of the machinery.

Mai Dinh Bridge, connecting Bac Giang and Bac Ninh provinces, and a 30km section of the National Highway 18 through Quang Ninh province, were put into use on May 18.

A ceremony was held in Hiep Hoa district, Bac Giang province to inaugurate Mai Dinh Bridge, in the presence of Politburo member and Vietnam Fatherland Front (VFF) Central Committee Chairman Nguyen Thien Nhan.

Addressing the ceremony, VFF Central Committee Chairman Nhan affirmed that the bridge played an important role in sustainable development of Bac Giang and Bac Ninh provinces and ensured traffic safety for local people along the banks of the Cau River.

Mai Dinh Bridge, at 643.4 metres long and 12 metres wide, was constructed from May 19, 2012, meeting all technical standards, to facilitate transport and communications and ensure stable living conditions for households in Hiep Hoa district, Bac Giang province and Yen Phong district, Bac Ninh province.

On the same day, the Ministry of Transport inaugurated the 30km section of the National Highway 18 through Quang Ninh province connecting Uong Bi city to Ha Long city and started work on a section of the National Highway connecting Bac Ninh province and Quang Ninh province’s Uong Bi city, undertaken on a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) model.

The event was attended by Politburo member and National Assembly (NA) Vice Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan and Minister of Transport Dinh La Thang.

Speaking at the event, NA Vice Chairwoman Ngan highly appreciated the efforts Ministry of Transport and local provinces in implementing the project.

The four-lane road was officially completed after three years of construction, with a total capital of VND2,840 billion.

Another section of the National Highway 18 connecting Bac Ninh province and Quang Ninh province’s Uong Bi city was officially started, with a total capital of VND5,744 billion.
