
SolarMax donated SolarMax inverters totaling 150kW to the University of Georgia (UGA) College of Engineering with the purpose of fostering study in the solar inverter technology field.

Atlanta, GA, May 19, 2014: SolarMax, a Swiss based global pure-play photovoltaic (PV) inverter company with U.S. headquarters in Atlanta, GA, and more than 20 years of PV inverter experience, today announced that it has donated SolarMax inverters totaling 150kW to the University of Georgia (UGA) College of Engineering with the purpose of fostering study in the solar inverter technology field.

Totaling a retail value of $39,000, SolarMax's donation is the largest in-kind equipment donation to date for the UGA College of Engineering.

"SolarMax is bringing to life the power of engineering for our students by enabling them to apply their classroom knowledge and experiment with the latest inverter technology," said Dr. Javad Mohammadpour, assistant professor of electrical engineering, University of Georgia, College of Engineering. "Most importantly, the skills they acquire at UGA will carry them forward as they enter the workforce and become the leaders of tomorrow. We are thankful to SolarMax for their donation and ongoing support of our engineering program, and in particular Complex Systems Controls Lab (CSCL)."

According to figures from the Solar Industries Energy Association (SEIA), $189 million was invested in Georgia to install solar in 2013, which represents a 795% increase over the previous year. Today, there are more than 146 companies employing 2,600 throughout the solar value chain in Georgia. With rapid growth expected again in 2014, Georgia has become a hotbed of solar technology and innovation. UGA's engineering program will help feed talent into the growing solar workforce.

"Giving back to the community is a core company value and we are excited about getting our technology in the hands of the students who will drive the next wave of innovation in the field," said Alan Beale, general manager, SolarMax USA, Inc. "SolarMax remains highly invested in promoting solar throughout Georgia, particularly as we grow and expand from our local Atlanta U.S. headquarters."

SolarMax, a Swiss company, is one of the world's leading manufacturers of grid-connected solar inverters. The company develops, produces and sells inverters for more than 20 years for every system – from photovoltaic plants on single-family homes whose kilowatt output is modest, to the solar power plants whose output is measured in megawatts. The inverter is a key component of the solar plant, transforming the generated direct current into grid-compliant alternating current. 20 years of experience are not only reflected in the Swiss quality, highest efficiency, reliability, and durability of the SolarMax products, but also in the way the company offers its customers excellent international support in the field of after sales, comprehensive warranty services, and intelligent solutions for system monitoring.

SolarMax is positioned internationally and currently has approx. 300 employees at the headquarters in Switzerland and at its locations worldwide.

Powered by LJB Management Inc.
