
Barbados’ economic recession may be hurting the bottom line of many Bajan firms but Grace Kennedy’s investments in the country aren’t feeling the pain.

That report card, of sorts, has come from Don Wehby, the conglomerate’s chief executive officer, who told BARBADOS BUSINESS AUTHORITY that despite the tough economic times the island was experiencing Grace Kennedy was doing “very well” in Barbados.

“Grace Kennedy has a 40 per cent interest in a merchant bank down there, Signia, and that merchant bank has been doing very well, despite the economic challenges in Barbados,” Wehby said after hosting a media breakfast in New York. “Our merchant bank in partnership with the Cave Shepherd Group has been doing exceptionally well. We are not hurting as much as other companies.

That approach, Wehby went on, would enable the region to record “sustainable growth in our territories”.

He called Grace Kennedy one of the Caribbean’s largest conglomerates, asserting that although the Eastern Caribbean was going through a rough economic patch, “we have been holding our own” when it came to market share and profitability.

“The Eastern Caribbean is a very important market for the Grace Kennedy group. Our products are sold there. We have banking services there. If the spending power of our brothers and sisters there declines it will affect our sales. Happily, though, we have been holding our own and our revenue and profitability in the Eastern Caribbean have actually been growing because of innovation and the introduction of new products,” he said.

For information about this website or content published please contact the Webmaster or Online Editor respectively. Regarding press releases please contact Janice Griffith .

Subscribe to NationNews with our Webfeed . Follow us on Facebook and Twitter .

No unauthorized use is permitted of content produced by NationNews.com, The Nation Newspaper or any other publication or media owned by Nation Publishing Co. Limited. Unauthorized use includes framing and direct posting of content on websites other than www.nationnews.com.
