
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Jamie Miller runs information technology for one of the most complex and admired companies in the world: General Electric. One would think that the CIO of such a company would have a deep technical background, perhaps having an advanced degree in an engineering discipline along with multiple stints as CIO previously.  Miller’s resume may not have these items on it, but she has something that IT departments increasingly need: financial expertise.

IT used to be a part of Finance in many companies, as some of the earliest technologies developed at big companies was technology applied to the general ledger, accounting systems more generally, and the like.  Likewise, when technology was taught at busienss schools, it was often a sub-set of the accounting department. It is perhaps ironic that a growing number of CIOs have grown up through the Finance function.  Miller has leveraged her background to make IT more transparent and accountable, and ever more cognizant of the value that it delivers to the enterprise.  CIOs with or without financial backgrounds should follow her lead.

Jamie Miller: I grew up in Finance.  I was GE’s Controller and Chief Accounting Officer and in that and other Finance roles I really learned a lot about how companies are put together, you know the product, the market, the processes, the systems and really we a company does very well, and where we have got some issues and I think having that type of insight is really critical coming into the CIO role. As a relative outsider to IT, I am able to view technology and our solutions from a business perspective, first and foremost. I believe I have helped challenge our thinking around how we drive business outcomes or how we can be better aligned with the company’s goals. So, it sort of gives you this outside in view.

Miller: I think that is fair and it really links what I was saying about having an outcomes based approach. What you start to realize is that in IT we can sometimes focus a lot on what we are building and the cost of what we are building. Sometimes we need a little bit more linkage to talking in that business language around what’s the outcome – what’s the impact to revenue and margin – of putting the system in or making this change and I think being able to translate and talk in those business terms is really one the keys to having the function work really successful with the other business units and functions and their objectives.

Miller: In my former role I worked a lot with respect to not only the applications that support Finance, but also the business applications and how they integrated with Finance, whether it was working through how to think about data or process automation and how that data gets set from point-to-point. We worked on a lot of those types of projects with businesses or really looked at how to set a new strategy around Finance systems for the company. I worked a lot in that application base as a customer.

Miller: That perspective helped because I really had a sense for how the businesses fit together, but one of my big learnings coming into the role was how much more there was to learn about IT. It’s not just the application piece of it, but there is also a big component which is the infrastructure utility that we run for the company.

I spent a good portion of my early days contemplating trends, determine which we should leverage and how. I also spent considerable time listening and learning from my colleagues. I had some experience, like I mentioned in Finance, with so many applications and in data spaces, but I also had this broader awareness that there were so much here to learn and so I went out to all of our business sites, a lot of manufacturing centers, spent time with our software teams, our cyber teams and I met with dozens of our IT and our business and our functional leaders to just get their views on IT. I asked them about what we, as IT, do well, where we need to play, where we need to play differently.

I also spent a lot of time outside the company with external peers, both traditional and some non-traditional technology players, really trying gain some insights into the broader trends and bring that back to GE to really set our strategy for IT. I continue to employ each of these methods as I continue to learn.

Miller: I spent time with some of my peers at companies like Procter & Gamble, with those who work with CIOs at companies like Accenture and IBM, but then I also spent time in Silicon Valley talking to startups and understanding trends from their perspective to really look at both the new world of IT as well as the traditional world of IT – how those two things are meshing today and where we need to start setting our path for GE technology as we think about going forward.

Miller: Absolutely, I spend a lot of time with our CTO, I spend a lot of time with teams, whether it’s the technical teams or security teams or the software teams. I asked a lot of simple questions to ensure that I understood the concepts in each of these domains. I probably make my team crazy with the questions I ask, but you really have to understand the deep details to be able set your strategy.

Miller: When we think across the enterprise, we think about three things: First, it is strategy – where do we need to think about IT and the future for GE? Second, it’s leveraging our scale – what should we be leveraging in a much bigger way to do something bigger for GE? Third, where I spend a lot of time is talent. How do we attract, retain, cultivate and drive talent development across IT and technology in the company and really pull through leaders and develop them? That is one of the benefits of working with a company like GE is we have such a great opportunity at scale to develop big talent and to give people big opportunities.

Those five themes apply to every one of our businesses. The actual practical strategy we might take on in healthcare business versus an aviation business might be different, but those themes are really a balance of where we need to invest, where we need to simplify, where we need to accelerate performance.

Miller: The most important metrics are did we execute the way in which we said we would, and did we deliver the value to the business that we had promised? So take something like simplification where we’ve got significant investment going on right now in supply chain technology. Each of our businesses have very specific plans around how we are going to consolidate our ERP systems. As you know, we are a very acquisitive company. Our landscape and footprint change quite a bit over the course of a few years, so right now this focus on ERP consolidation and systems integration, we’ve got clearly defined metrics around what we want each of our businesses to target in the way of ultimate system count and we measure those every quarter.

Similarly, we also have big investments going on in our services businesses to make sure we are highly integrated and highly automated in how our workflows work and how data moves through the company. We are measuring that as well. So, we basically say what outcome do we want? Let’s break that down into the capital actions to get there, then we figure out how to measure it.

Miller: We engage in the innovation process in a lot of different ways. First, we have a robust collaboration community in the company. We have got a platform called Colab which has 340,000 unique visitors. I think it’s got more than 23,000 groups in it today. It’s really a place where people can form communities to solve different problems or innovate around different challenges, that’s been a really big thing. The IT communities there are very chatty and robust, whether its problem solving or working through issues or sharing information.

We also have done a lot of work with our software center in San Ramon and that one has been very exciting as the partnerships we’ve been forging in the last couple of years between Software, IT and Engineering to really bring together the Software Center’s ability to be very creative and bring in data scientists and other disciplines coupled with Engineering, coupled with IT and our ability to operationalize that scale is driven our innovation ability to develop some unique new applications.

One example is something like a solution we’ve driven called Smart Outage, which is basically a workflow and mobile collaboration tool designed for our field engineers in our services businesses. It gives them real time information, the way when they are out on a rig, repairing some big heavy metal equipment or when they are at a power plant a way to connect back and collaborate with the expert. It’s a way for them to have automated measurements and workflows and a way for them to transmit data in ways we haven’t been able to do before. So, it’s driven this mobile touch, collaboration, and productivity and it is ideas and applications like that that the combination of the disciplines together has really been able to help us drive. Therefore, IT does not operate alone; it works in deep partnership with a variety of other disciplines.

Miller: The two big themes I spend a lot of time on are cloud and mobility. Mobility is a well formed opportunity. It’s constantly coming up with different applications and uses, but when we think about the applications that GE and mobile first, we are really thinking differently about application design and development, a lot more focus on user experience. You can see that coming through in tools like Smart Outage, or some of the other tools we are building around how to help our salesforce have much more real-time conversations with our customers around ROI and other things, so mobile’s been a huge external trend that we are leveraging.

The other one that I think is really interesting is cloud and whether you want to think about cloud in the software as a service base or all the way over into the infrastructure as a service base, I think it’s a topic that is moving at light speed and we see very mature staff capabilities out there. Where we see mature staff capability, typically in GE, we are adopting it very rapidly. We have done a lot with industrial internet to power that with cloud infrastructure, but when we think about enterprise infrastructure at scale, that’s another topic we are really leaning into.

What I can tell you is when I spend time with the VC firms or other startups, we are seeing some very rapid innovation in this space and things that are going to cause companies’ ability to tap into some of these providers in a highly switchable, highly controlled way. I think that ability is going to be there in the next year or two and its very exciting to think about how we can move from running data centers and controlling our infrastructure to a space where we are driving speed at scale using somebody else’s power and infrastructure. I think there is a lot that we are going to learn along the way, but that’s a big one where we spend a lot of our time thinking about here at GE.

Peter High  is the President of  Metis Strategy , a business and IT advisory firm. He is also the author of  World Class IT: Why Businesses Succeed When IT Triumphs , and the moderator of the  Forum on World Class IT  podcast series. In September, Wiley Press will publish his next book, Implementing World Class IT Strategy. Follow him on Twitter @WorldClassIT.
