
COPENHAGEN, Denmark, May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Symphogen A/S, a private biopharmaceutical company with leadership in recombinant antibody mixtures for therapeutic use, today announced the relocation of its corporate headquarters in Lyngby, outside Copenhagen, Denmark, to a 10,000 m2 (100,000 ft2) facility in Ballerup, also a suburb of Copenhagen. Separately, Symphogen announced that Mads Laustsen was appointed to the newly created position of Chief Manufacturing Officer.

Mads Laustsen, one of the founders of CMC Biologics, served as the company’s CEO from the time of the company’s inception 2001 until May 2011, when he was named to the Board of Directors. During this period, the company grew from a business idea to a global leader in contract biologics manufacturing. Laustsen joins Symphogen June 1, but remains a non-executive Director on the CMC Biologics Board. Prior to establishing CMC Biologics, he spent 16 years developing and manufacturing bulk enzymes and biopharmaceuticals at Novo Nordisk, Zymogenetics, and Novozymes. Laustsen has served as a member of various advisory boards, has been active in development of new process technologies, and holds numerous patents in the field.

Symphogen is developing next-generation antibody therapeutics for the treatment of cancer and is dedicated to bringing truly innovative oncology products to the market.

The company has advanced the frontier of antibody discovery by creating well-characterized antibody mixtures that address multiple oncology targets in a single drug product. The company has matured its oncology pipeline and has currently brought two product candidates into the clinic. The company’s productive technology suite – capable of identifying, selecting, and manufacturing optimal antibody mixtures – fuels Symphogen’s innovative pipeline.

The lead oncology product, Sym004, was out-licensed to Merck KGaA in 2012 following phase 2 clinical data in late stage cancer patients.

In total, the company has raised €249 million in equity capital from premier international investors including Novo, Essex Woodlands Health Ventures, and PKA, and employs 100 people, most of whom are based at Symphogen’s facilities in Copenhagen.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
