
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., May 19, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- BlueGrace Logistics , one of the fastest-growing and most successful logistics companies, is expanding its footprint in Michigan. The shipping and freight franchisor is seeking those interested in the BlueGrace Logistics franchise opportunity and hopes to begin the interview process within the next couple of months.

In 2013, the firm increased its footprint by 62 percent, with a 30 percent increase in revenue over 2012. The company has repositioned its franchise opportunity to encourage those who are a good culture fit with the organization. The new process consists of several in-depth interviews, a face-to-face visit with the corporate team in Tampa, Fla. and one-on-one consulting with an existing franchise owner in the BlueGrace Franchise Network.

"Our culture has played a huge role in the development of our company. We believe in hiring happy people, not resumes. As we grow and become an established franchisor in the marketplace, it is critical we apply this same principle to potential franchisees. Being a culture fit, and going through an interview process allows us to assess traits that will foster success with our business model and support system," says Bobby Harris, President and CEO of BlueGrace Logistics.

With the company's rapid growth, strong franchise partnerships play an essential role in the hyper-growth model. After being awarded a franchise, new partners receive a week of initial training and support, ongoing and advanced training, a BlueGrace Executive Mentor and a dedicated support specialist/manager to be a constant point of contact.

By establishing franchise locations in the Michigan market, BlueGrace will be able to reach more customers in the Midwestern region. With several manufacturing and warehousing companies currently existing in this area, it will provide a BlueGrace franchisee with a unique opportunity to engrain themselves and the brand with an industry-saturated market.

"Our opportunity is very unique to say the least. We are in an industry that sticks out to most people researching franchise opportunities because the 3PL sector is one of the fastest growing segments," says Bobby Harris.

The company is seeking potential franchisees in the Michigan market through July 2014. For more information, please call 866.872.7357or visit www.bluegracefranchise.com .

Founded in 2009, BlueGrace Logistics offers complete, customized transportation management solutions to customers across the United States. Based in Riverview, Fla. with satellite offices in Chicago, Baltimore and Salt Lake City, the franchise is known as a "hyper-growth" company with more than 400 percent growth since inception. BlueGrace Logistics launched its franchise program in early 2011 as part of its strategic growth plan and currently has 42 franchisees in 44 locations across the U.S. The company offers freight services such as Less Than Truckload (LTL), Truckload Services (TL), International and Domestic Air Freight, Ocean Freight, Supply Chain Management, State-of-the-Art Technology, Service Desk Support, and Auditing Services. For more information, visit www.mybluegrace.com .

You must be a registered user to download this file.
