
Miami Beach is once again bracing for massive crowds this Memorial Day weekend as up to a quarter-million revelers are expected to flock to the Beach for hip-hop performances.

Police will implement a traffic and safety plan that has become standard during the holiday weekend, also known as Urban Beach Week. It includes closed roads, more lighting and a force of 600 officers from departments around Miami-Dade County.

Starting at 7 a.m. Friday, Ocean Drive will be closed to vehicles. As in years past, traffic will be forced to loop around South Beach by heading north on Collins Avenue and south on Washington Avenue from 7 p.m. until 7 a.m. To make way for pedestrians, street parking is not allowed on Collins Avenue between Fifth and 15th streets.

Parking and traffic will be restricted in alleys and along east-west streets. Hotel valet parking also will be affected.

Normal traffic patterns resume at 7 a.m. Tuesday.

On the MacArthur and Julia Tuttle causeways, police will narrow eastbound traffic to one lane from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. Friday through Sunday. Police scan every license plate to check for stolen cars and outstanding warrants. Drivers also should expect DUI checkpoints from 7 p.m. Friday to 5 a.m. Saturday. The Venetian Causeway will be restricted to local traffic.

Residents like Scott Diffenderfer, 46, applaud the traffic restrictions.

But traffic may be worse than usual this year, as two major north/south thoroughfares are under construction. Alton Road between Eighth and 17th streets is closed to southbound traffic, forcing cars into the residential neighborhood along West Avenue. Traffic on Collins Avenue will be forced into the center lane, as that street is also under construction.

Taxi driver Anthony White, 39, said the traffic conditions make it hard to do his job.

Hotel bookings indicate an increase in occupancy for Miami Beach from 71.3 percent in 2013 to 77 percent in 2014, according to the Greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau. A slight decrease is expected for Miami-Dade.

Nightclubs book big talent for performances all weekend long. Urban Beach Week is not an officially organized or sponsored event, but a series of unaffiliated parties.

Despite the throngs of people expected, not all businesses look forward to the weekend. Memorial Day has long been polarizing in Miami Beach, with sometimes unruly crowds and an explosive fatal police shooting in 2011.

A spokesman for Bamboo nightclub on Washington Avenue said owners are debating whether they’ll even be open.

“Because of the police blockades and the traffic restrictions, our business is limited by at least 90 percent,” Adrian Blaga, who handles marketing for the club, wrote in an email.

But David Ballou, 50, a distribution manager for Alvin’s Island and I Love Liquor in Miami Beach, said he expects his cash register to sing this weekend.

Wendy E. Kallergis, president of the Greater Miami & the Beaches Hotel Association, said she is optimistic.

“It’s proving to be a good weekend,” she said.

Follow @ Cveiga on Twitter.

This article includes comments from the Public Insight Network, an online community of people who have agreed to share their insights with the Miami Herald and WLRN. Become a source at MiamiHerald.com/insight.

The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

The Miami Herald uses Facebook's commenting system. You need to log in with a Facebook account in order to comment. If you have questions about commenting with your Facebook account, click here .

This affects comments on all stories.
