
(MENAFN - Qatar News Agency) Cupied jerusalem may 19 (qna) - israel has approved a three-year nis 50 million plan to strengthen its economic ties with at least five latin american countries meant to help israel decrease its dependency on europe as the primary trading partner.

the plan focuses on costa rica and the four countries that make up the pacific alliance – columbia mexico chile and peru.

these five countries have a combined gdp of over 3 trillion and constitute 40 percent of latin america’s gdp according to the israeli prime minister’s office.

"we are making a very concentrated and focused effort to vary our markets from our previous dependence on the european market to the growing asian and latin american markets in which israel needs to take a small market share and bring about growth employment and social welfare in the state of israel" netanyahu said at the start of sunday’s weekly cabinet meeting.

overall in 2013 israel’s exported goods were worth 66.58 billion around the globe according to the pmo. but only 2% an amount worth 1b. went to the pacific alliance states.

israel wants to expand the number of businesses that export to latin america. at present 10 exporters account for almost 50% of the total exports to the region according to the pmo.

the pacific alliance is the sixth largest economy in the world the pmo said. it added that 26% of foreign investment in latin america over 70 billion goes to those countries.

israel has become more active in latin america and last february became an observer in the pacific alliance.

israel can now participate in the alliance’s staff work and attend its conferences a move that will help facilitate cooperation with latin america the pmo said.

according to the three-year plan designed by the prime minister’s office and the foreign ministry two commercial attache offices will be opened in chile and peru.

israel will also boost its embassies in mexico columbia and costa rico.

the embassy in paraguay which was closed in february 2002 for budgetary reasons will be re-opened.

efforts are to be made to increase tourism from columbia and mexico.
