
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.

Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.

For more information about placing obituaries, click here .

Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. on Monday announced the new G650ER business jet, an ultra-long-range version of its G650, while Dassault Aviation launched the Falcon 8X ultra-long-range jet.

Gulfstream’s extended-range version of its G650 will be able to travel 7,500 nautical miles, 500 nautical miles more than the earlier version, the company said.

Gulfstream hails the G650ER as the world’s longest-range business jet.

The two companies made their announcements before the opening of the European Business Aviation Conference and Exhibition in Geneva.

Europe’s largest business jet show runs Tuesday through Thursday.

Spirit AeroSystems builds the wings for the G650 at its Tulsa facility.

The plane’s capabilities are the result, in part, of twin Rolls Royce BR725 engines, the company said.

The aircraft will share the same cabin, avionics and systems as the G650 and is undergoing Federal Aviation Administration certification.

Current G650 owners and those who have them on order will be able to upgrade to the G650ER starting in the first quarter of 2015.

The Falcon 8, in the meantime, will be able to carry eight passengers and three crew members and have a range of 6,450 nautical miles.

It features the longest cabin of any Falcon, the company said.

Dassault also has the Falcon 5X in development. The 8X gives Dassault a family of six jets.

First flight of the 8X is expected in early 2015, with certification in mid-2016, and deliveries to follow before the end of 2016.

In other news from EBACE, Honda Aircraft Co. announced several milestones for its HondaJet currently in development.

The North Carolina-based company revealed the first production HondaJet at the show.

The plane is ready for ground tests and features a new paint scheme, a deep pearl green with a gold stripe. That gives customers a choice of five exterior color options.

The company’s most important goals are achieving FAA certification and delivering the first plane to a customer, the company said.

“Our total effort is focused on reaching these much anticipated milestones in the first quarter of 2015,” Michimasa Fujino, Honda Aircraft president and CEO, said in a statement.

First flight is expected this summer.

Nine aircraft are on the final assembly line. Production is on schedule to have 10 jets on the final assembly line in June.

The steady buildup supports Honda Aircraft’s objective to have aircraft ready for delivery immediately after type certification is achieved next year, the company said.

is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.
