
Welcome!

The United States is in the midst of an oil and gas drilling boom. This has blessed the nation with cheap natural gas and plentiful oil, but it looks like it's providing oil services companies with a great business opportunity as well. Forget the oil and gas producers, and take a closer look at Helmerich & Payne (NYSE: HP     )  and CARBO Ceramics (NYSE: CRR     ) .

What at first looks like a boom in oil and natural gas can quickly start to look like a bust because well flow from shale plays declines rapidly. Pete Stark, a geologist and senior researcher at IHS, told Bloomberg recently that, "The decline rate is a potential show stopper after a while. You just can't keep up with it."

Why is that? According to Stark, it's because the flow from natural gas wells can fall 50% to 75% in the first year. Oil flows from shale wells can decline nearly 80%. A well that looks like a goldmine quickly needs to be replaced if a company wants its production numbers to keep growing.

That's where drillers and suppliers come in. Companies like driller Helmerich & Payne and high-end hydraulic fracturing proppant seller CARBO are there to help keep the drill bits going and the flow as high as possible.

At the start of the year, Helmerich had 340 drill rigs around the world. However, around 300 of those are located in the United States. By the end of this year, it's expecting to have a total of 375 rigs, with notable growth on the U.S. count.

Helmerich estimates that its share of the drilling market is about 15%, up six percentage points from about five years ago. More importantly, it's leapfrogged over competitors, with a four percentage point lead over the next two largest players. Both had a bigger share of the market than Helmerich in 2008.

The company's revenues hit a peak in fiscal 2008 (years end September) and then fell for two years. However, over the last three fiscal years revenues have headed higher with 2013's top line 66% above what it was in 2008. Earnings followed a similar pattern, hitting nearly $6.80 a share last year including $0.15 from discontinued operations. The fiscal first half is off to a solid start, with six month earnings of nearly $3.20 a share and the announcement of contracts for nine rigs.

That said, just putting a drill bit in the ground isn't the way you get oil and gas out of shale plays. Hydraulic fracturing involves shoving a proppant, water, and chemicals into the ground, too. On that front, CARBO's high-end ceramic proppants offer customers a good deal.

For example, CARBO's product offers a 20% improvement over lower cost proppant from China. In fact, the company claims that the extra cost for its ceramic material is paid back in just two to six months. CARBO produced 1.75 billion pounds of proppant last year, selling just about all it made. It is working on expanding capacity to 2.75 billion pounds and, if history is any guide, it will sell all of that, too.

CARBO's revenues dipped slightly in 2009, but otherwise have been on a steady upward climb over the last decade. The top line was over $660 million last year (and was only around $220 million ten years ago.) Earnings have been more volatile, and investment in new capacity could be a drag over the next year or so. However, CARBO has been selling everything it makes and as long as shale drilling continues, so too should CARBO's success.

Drilling for oil and gas is about more than just the commodities, it's also about the process. Helmerich & Payne and CARBO Ceramics are both key players on that side of the equation. With high well flow declines, look for more drilling and more success at Helmerich and CARBO.

Reuben Brewer has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Be the first one to comment on this article.

Your Fool username will be displayed with your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
