
Share This Story!

ROCHESTER, N.Y. — The New York woman who bought weapons that a gunman used to kill to firefighters in 2012, was sentenced Monday to 16 months to four years in prison.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Dawn Nguyen, who was convicted in April of lying on a firearms transaction form in 2010, was sentenced to 16 months to four years in prison Monday, May 19, 2014. Authorities say she bought guns for William Spengler Jr. who used them in an ambush of West Webster, N.Y., firefighters in 2012.

ROCHESTER, N.Y. — The New York woman who bought weapons that a gunman used to kill two firefighters in 2012, was sentenced Monday to 16 months to four years in state prison.

Dawn Nguyen was convicted last month for lying on a firearms transaction form in 2010 when she bought a shotgun and a semiautomatic rifle — weapons that prosecutors allege were bought for a man who used them to kill two West Webster, N.Y., firefighters in a deadly attack on Christmas Eve 2012.

It was the maximum sentence, yet State Supreme Court Justice Thomas Moran said it failed to match Nguyen's crime — providing guns to William Spengler Jr., a convicted felon who beat his grandmother to death with a hammer in 1981. He was barred from owning firearms as a result.

"We need to send a signal that you do not put guns in the hands of felons," Moran said.

The Brady Center to Prevent Handgun Violence announced shortly after the sentencing that it plans to file a lawsuit against Gander Mountain, where Nguyen bought the guns, arguing that the store should have known she was making a so-called straw purchase for Spengler. The group planned to detail the lawsuit in a news conference Tuesday.

The sentence was a win for prosecutors, who sought a prison term. Nguyen's attorney, Matthew Parrinello, previously said probation would be the more common and appropriate punishment.

Wearing a red jail uniform, Nguyen declined to speak before Moran announced his sentence and showed little reaction as he read it.

Minutes earlier, tears rolled down her cheeks as Parrinello spoke. He described Nguyen as a caring woman who helped raise her young nieces and invited homeless people over for meals.

The victim of Nguyen's crime — first-degree falsification of a business record — was Gander Mountain, not the men whom Spengler killed and wounded, Parrinello argued.

"Everyone wants to connect Dawn Nguyen to that, to say but for Dawn Nguyen that wouldn't have happened," he said of the shooting. "Our position is that isn't correct."

After the sentencing, Ted Scardino, one of two firefighters wounded in the 2012 shooting, said Moran "hit the nail on the head." With a crowd of uniformed first responders behind him, Scardino recalled what Nguyen's attorney said about her nieces.

"Several families here have little kids that don't have a father or don't have a son anymore," Scardino said.

The sentence means that Nguyen will be eligible for parole in 16 months, but if she is held longer, it will be for no more than four years.

Parrinello said he plans to file an appeal.

Nick Chiapperini waits for the sentencing to begin outside court. His father, Mike, was one of the West Webster Firefighters shot and killed by William Spengler Jr. whose gun was purchased by Dawn Nguyen.

Nguyen bought a rifle and shotgun at Gander Mountain in June 2010. She indicated on a firearms form the weapons were for her, but authorities said they were for Spengler, her neighbor.

On Christmas Eve 2012, Spengler set a fire at his Lake Road home in Webster, N.Y., and ambushed emergency responders, killing volunteer firefighters Tomasz Kaczowka and Michael Chiapperini and wounding Scardino and Joseph Hofstetter.

Authorities say Spengler also used a third weapon — a handgun — to kill his sister, Cheryl, before setting the fire. He used that gun to kill himself.

No one argued that Nguyen knew exactly what Spengler would do with the guns more than 900 days after she bought them. However, Assistant District Attorney Timothy Prosperi said Nguyen chose to ignore obvious risks in buying weapons for a felon whom her family called the "crazy dude."

As Nguyen traveled to Gander Mountain in Henrietta, N.Y., looked at guns with Spengler and filled out the transaction form at the register, she had several chances to change her mind and walk away, yet she did not, Prosperi said.

"Essentially, judge, she ignored these dangers and made a calculated decision to engage in this crime for money," he said.

Prosecutors maintain that Spengler paid Nguyen $1,000 to buy the guns.

In his arguments, Parrinello alluded to Spengler's suicide note, in which the gunman claimed he actually paid Nguyen's mother, Dawn Welsher, to get the weapons, and that Nguyen had been duped.

"Whether these folks like it or not, regardless of what guns Dawn Nguyen bought, Mr. Spengler was going to do what Mr. Spengler was going to do," Parrinello said, referring to emergency responders in the courtroom.

Moran said Nguyen knew well who Spengler was. The AR-15 rifle and the pistol-gripped shotgun she bought are designed to kill people, not for target-shooting or hunting, he said.

"It is so unconscionable that she would take those guns and put them in that man's hands," Moran said. "Nothing, nothing, nothing good was ever going to come of this."

With that action, Nguyen put what she wanted above the rest of the community and "sold the rest of us out," Moran said. He bemoaned that the prison sentence was not longer.

"What she did was so much worse," he said.

Nguyen also faces federal charges for illegally purchasing the firearms, selling to a known felon and being an unlawful user of marijuana.

Contributing: Tina MacIntyre-Yee, Rochester (N.Y.) Democrat and Chronicle.
