
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Providence developer Stanley Weiss believes Rhode Island should take advantage of what he calls its “high-quality, well-built ancient architecture,” many of the former mill buildings now vacant or underused in its downtown areas.

He took issue last week with a consultant’s suggestion that the Rhode Island Commerce Corporation should have funding to develop a business park with “pad-ready sites” for manufacturers seeking larger facilities than currently exist.

Weiss spoke out after Commerce Executive Director Marcel A. Valois said the Quonset Business Park is “down to less than a few hundred acres of available land” and now is the time for Rhode Island to consider where else it could create an industrial park to support manufacturing and distribution facilities.

“Where’s the next Quonset going to come from?” Valois said at the commerce agency’s special board meeting Thursday to review a draft of the Fourth Economy report.

But Weiss said converting older mills in areas near where Rhode Island’s population lives and taking advantage of nearby land makes better economic sense than building more industrial parks.

Both Valois and Overmoyer said Weiss made good points — and that the economic-development plan also urges the state to consider how to prepare its former mills for current and future uses.

Governor Chafee, who chairs the Commerce Corporation, said it’s vital that Rhode Island retain those structures. He told the board of a trip he led in October 2011 of a Rhode Island delegation to Pittsburgh, which worked to reinvent itself as its steel manufacturing was dying off. He recalled the tour by Pittsburgh leaders, who showed off an area along the city’s river where old steel mills had been razed to make way for new development.

There are challenges, Chafee said, and commerce board member Jerauld Adams, who has renovated and now rents out space in Hemphill Mill, in Central Falls, agreed. But, Adams said, an important point is that the infrastructure — water, sewer and electricity — already exists at those old sites.

Weiss has raised the issue of land use before at commerce meetings, most recently in March, when he criticized news that an international sandwich maker, Greencore Group, would build its Northeastern hub at Quonset Business Park. After learning at that meeting that the company would pay most of its workers entry-level wages, Weiss said they’d need cars — not easy to afford on $10 to $11 an hour — to get to those jobs because public transportation to Quonset is not adequate.

But Rhode Island cannot ignore companies that don’t want to renovate old mill buildings, Valois said, adding that the consultants’ report had to address that reality.

The commerce agency is now dealing with four companies that are each looking for 200,000 to 300,000 square feet on one floor, Valois told the board. He wouldn’t say more about those companies when asked afterward, but he emphasized the need to have options for companies that want to be in the Northeast and might consider Rhode Island.

The consultants are working to update the plan after Thursday’s discussion. Valois expects to ask the board to approve a new document Monday at the agency’s regular meeting, which begins at 5 p.m.

The commerce board also urged the consulting group to augment the idea that Rhode Island must capitalize on its arts and culture organizations, expand manufacturing opportunities and update and maintain the state’s infrastructure. That last piece, the board agreed, is of key economic concern so businesses aren’t sidetracked with major damages from flooding and hurricanes as climate change affects the Ocean State.

Once approved, the report will be given to Kevin M. Flynn, associate director of the state’s planning division, which will incorporate it into an overall plan that division is crafting for improving the state’s economy. The idea is for the state to have a plan in place when the next governor comes into office in January 2015.
