
UCSC professor Thorne Lay has received one of the highest honors in his field, the Harry Fielding Reid Medal of the Seismological Society of America.

The announcement came one day after Lay's election to the National Academy of Sciences. Lay, a professor of Earth and planetary sciences, is known for his use of seismic waves to study the structure of Earth's interior.

For details, visit news.ucsc.edu .

The Women's International League for Peace and Freedom will host a free discussion titled "U.S./Middle East Peace Policy — Help or Hindrance?" featuring Professor Stephen Zunes of the University of San Francisco at 7 p.m. Tuesday at Center for Spiritual Living, 1818 Felt St., Live Oak.

Zunes also will give a talk titled "The Syrian Crisis: Three Years On" beginning at 7 p.m. Sunday at the Resource Center for Nonviolence, 612 Ocean St., Admission will be $10-$20.

The Santa Cruz County Civil Grand Jury on Friday backed a Juvenile Hall meal program.

In its first report of the 2013-14 year, the citizen-led jury investigated the dining program at county jails. The Sheriff's Office has looked at consolidating meal preparation at its Rountree Medium Facility, at one point visiting Juvenile Hall.

The jury suggested preparation of Juvenile Hall meals stay separate from the rest of the jail facilities.

The Crosson North County Democratic Club is sponsoring a community dine-out fundraiser to support safety net services provided by Valley Churches United Missions and Mountain Community Resources.

By dining at Bruno's BBQ in Scotts Valley on Monday or Boulder Creek Brewery on Wednesday, patrons will see a percentage of sales go to those organization.

Other dine-out events are scheduled for Redwood Pizzeria in Felton on May 27, the Trout Farm Inn in Zayante on May 30, Boulder Creek Pizza & Pub on June 2, and The Red Pearl in Boulder Creek on June 17.

Mama Mia's in Felton will also donate 15 percent of gift certificate sales from May 28 and June 2. For more information, call 831-431-6163.

Traffic control and asphalt patching on Highway 1 begins Monday near Moss Landing and Seaside and Carmel, Caltrans announced.

The biggest impact will be felt Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at northbound Highway 1 near Struve Road in Moss Landing. Delays of 30 to 45 minutes can be expected, and drivers are strongly advised to avoid the area.

• 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday on southbound Highway 1 at Ocean Avenue in Carmel.

• 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Wednesday on northbound Highway 1 at the Fremont/Seaside on ramp.

• 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Thursday on southbound Highway 1 at the Fremont/Seaside off ramp.

The Democratic Women's Club of Santa Cruz County will present a lunch and program Wednesday on the theme "It Takes a Village: Creating a Culture of Partnership to Meet Community Needs.

Lunch will be served at 11:30 and the program will begin at noon at the Police Department Community Room, 155 Center St.

The Mount Cross camp in the Santa Cruz Mountains, 7795 Highway 9, will host a fundraising barbecue for Habitat for Humanity at 1 p.m. May 25 with carnival games and a silent auction.

Activities for the entire family start at 1 p.m., including swimming, archery, a climbing tower and games. The barbecue will be served 2-3:30 p.m.

Auction donors include Bay Photo Lab, Café Cruz, Gayle's Bakery, Laili, O'Neill Surf Shop, Palace Art Supply, Redwood Canopy Tours, Santa Cruz Symphony, and The Buttery.

For details, visit www.habitatsc.org .
