
Terms weren't disclosed but the deal is expected to close June 1, TDECU CFO Rhonda Kleinecke told the Houston Business Journal.

While FMC's membership is small compared to TDECU, which has more than 186,000 members and $2.1 billion in assets, the location is key. The acquisition will give TDECU a presence in north Houston.

Kleinecke told HBJ that FMC's credit union only has one location, at its Gears Road facility north of Interstate 45 and Beltway 8.

"We are not there," Kleinecke told HBJ. "So this expands our footprint north of 45."

Kleinecke also said that TDECU hopes to open a branch at FMC Technologies new campus in Generation Park, but it's a 10-year project so she's unsure when that location could open.

As for the reason for the merger, Kleinecke said that TDECU offers a wider array of services for FMC credit union members, including online banking and debit cards.

"They didn't have the depth and breadth of products and services that we have," Kleinecke said.

Also, FMC's credit union had what's referred to as a closed charter, meaning that it was only open to employees and their family members. TDECU has an open charter, meaning that it will be able to offer membership to other individuals and businesses in the area.

"Much like the banking industry, the credit union industry is under pressure to consolidate," said Dan Bass , managing director of Performance Trust Capital Partners. "Higher capital levels, more compliance costs as a result of Dodd-Frank have forced a large number of financial institutions to pursue the merger route to combat these issues."

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Houston Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
