
Welcome!

By now you might know that the Permian Basin in West Texas is, perhaps, the most promising new shale play in the country. Initial estimates by Pioneer Natural Resources (NYSE: PXD     )  rank the Permian Basin as the second biggest oilfield in the world when probable shale oil reserves are included. The best part? The drilling of this shale oil is just getting started.

One way to do so is Concho Resources (NYSE: CXO     ) . Concho is a pure play on the Permian Basin. The company was founded in 2004 by Tim Leach. Concho was the last of three companies founded by Leach and certain others, and it was specifically designed to explore for shale oil.

Of course, management's plan is not to merely drill for drilling's sake. In addition to rising production, the completion cost for a standard well is declining. In just the last six months, well costs on a typical frack job have gone from $5.6 million to just $5 million. And, as you can see, the time it takes to complete a horizontal well is falling.

No discussion about a company can be complete without looking at its finances. Like most exploration and development companies, Concho does have substantial debt. However, management's explicit goal is to keep total debt at no more than 2 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expenses.

Right now Concho is trading at a reasonable price when compared to its Permian shale-drilling peers. Shares of Concho trade at about 3.7 times book value; closest peer Pioneer Resources sits at 4.4 times, and geographically diversified shale driller EOG Resources sits at 3.5 times. If the Permian indeed ends up being the world's second largest oilfield, you'll be glad you bought Concho here.

Casey Hoerth has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of EOG Resources. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Be the first one to comment on this article.

Your Fool username will be displayed with your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and AMEX data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates and Analyst Ratings provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
