
MANILA - The mobile financial services subsidiary of Smart Communications Inc and Citi Philippines have partnered to pursue innovations in mobile payments.

The partnership between Smart e-Money Inc and Citi aims to provide the multinational bank’s existing clients with groundbreaking ways to settle bills and pay for purchases, with the support of global payments technology company Visa.

Smart is the mobile unit of Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.

"Partnering with Citi Philippines and Visa, both global leaders in their respective industries, underscores our aspiration to provide the best innovative payments products in the market. Smart e-Money, being a global pioneer in the mobile money domain, is well positioned to be more aggressive in raising the ante and  in becoming to be the leader in enabling, engaging and empowering its target consumers," Manuel V. Pangilinan, PLDT Group and Smart chairman, said in a statement.

Batara Sianturi, Citi Philippines chief executive said: "At Citi, we want our clients to have a remarkable experience each and every time they choose to pay with our credit cards. This collaboration affords us the opportunity to deliver again on this promise, and we are committed with Smart and Visa to anticipate the needs of our consumers and go beyond market expectations. We will no doubt raise the bar anew when we redefine mobile payments when we disclose more details around this partnership."

According to Citi, more than half of its client base access accounts digitally. The tie-up with Smart comes a year after the bank launched a new payment technology, the Citi Visa payWave, which allows cardholders to simply wave their card next to an activated terminal to pay for small purchases. The payWave cards are now used in coffee shops, groceries and cinemas among others.

"We are looking forward to using our expertise in innovations such as Visa payWave contactless payments to help to develop solutions that will enhance the payment experience and make everyday transactions easier for our Visa cardholders," Cooper said.

Lito Villanueva, Smart e-Money innovations and emerging payments head, said, "We are ushering in the future in mobile payments. With this partnership, we can explore how a bank like Citi can venture into the digital space farther than online and mobile banking, how digital enablers like Smart can change the payments landscape, and how payment network Visa can provide interoperability and reach across the globe. The possibilities are endless. "

InterAksyon.com is the online news portal of TV5, a member of the PLDT Group.
