
NEW YORK – Although the room was stuffed to the gills with practically every  influential Jewish philanthropist and political donor in the US (read: the  Adelsons), New Jersey Governor Chris Christie failed to deliver what was  promised to be a “major speech on Israel and the Middle East” on Sunday night at  Rabbi Shmuley Boteach’s second annual “Champions of Jewish Values International  Awards Gala” in Manhattan. In fact, Christie did not mention Israel by  name once.

A rumored contender for a 2016 Republican presidential  nomination, Christie’s speech was thought by many to be a chance to declare his  support for Israel — as US presidential candidates are practically required to  do — and apologize for a comment he made involving the words “occupied” and “territories” at an address to the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas  about two months ago.

Instead, Christie’s speech focused on how America’s  place in world leadership has fallen from the revered position it once held,  indirectly calling US President Barack Obama’s foreign policy weak, especially  in relation to Syria.

That was as close as Christie got to mentioning the  Jewish state in his 20-minute address, angering many guests, including Morton  Klein, president of the Zionist Organization of America.

Another noted guest at the dinner, who wished not to be named for  fear of stirring controversy, agreed with Klein’s assessment. “I thought it was  too political,” he said. “This wasn’t the right crowd,” and expressed a similar  view to Klein’s in that Christie’s speech was inappropriate; a simple stump  speech that was the exact same as speeches he’d given at other gatherings; not  at all tailored to his audience.

“Why is he so uncomfortable saying  something nice about Israel?” Klein wondered.

Despite this gaff that  quickly had the many reporters in the room murmuring amongst themselves, the  rest of the evening contained several plugs for Rabbi Boteach’s new book, “Kosher Lust,” and a panel discussion of the future of the Jewish people with  Sheldon Adelson, Israel’s ambassador to the US Ron Dermer, and Birthright  co-founder Michael Steinhardt.

But the pinnacle of the dinner was when  Jacob Ostreicher, the man who spent three years in a Bolivian prison, took the  podium and gave the most detailed account yet of what befell him in those years  and how he first met the man who rescued him, Sean Penn, while in  prison.

Ostreicher was being transferred to a particularly dangerous area  of the prison when Penn walked in, shook his hand, and asked him when the last  time was that he saw a doctor.

Ostreicher said that at the time he  weighed less than 50 kg.

Penn told him he had met with the president of  Bolivia, and everyone was aware he was innocent. Within 48 hours, Penn got him a  doctor, and over the next six months, “made a series of miracles happen,” which  resulted in not only Ostreicher’s freedom, but the arrest of 28 high government  officials.

Boteach, in his address at the beginning of the night,  said he hoped the night would transcend the various political views present in  the room.

Other recipients of the evening included Judy and Michael  Steinhardt, the Adelsons, Dermer, New Jersey senator Cory Booker, whose brothers  Cary and John accepted the award for him, and humanitarian John  Prendergast.

Other attendees included Harvard law professor Alan  Dershowtiz, Texas governor Rick Perry, who also spoke briefly and mentioned  Israel’s friendship with the US many times, Nobel Prize Laureate Elie Wiesel,  Hawaii Senator Tulsi Gabbard, Israel’s representative at the UN Ron Prosor and  Israel’s Consul-General in New York Ido Aharoni.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
