
This year the event moves to a new home in London's ExCel centre and as part of UBM's wider Protection and Management (P&M) Series benefits from sitting alongside sister events Facilities Show , Safety and Health Expo, FIREX international and Energy & Environment Expo. Having been integrated into the P&M series last year, attendees of Service Management Expo were able to take advantage of the wider range of companies exhibiting across the series as a whole.

However, Service Management Expo also firmly remains an important event in its own right. As the largest exhibition dedicated to the field service industry in Europe, Service Management Expo offers service professionals a unique opportunity to meet with a number of providers of field service software , specialised rugged hardware, fleet management technologies and more.

Join Trimble Field Service Management for an in-depth look at some of the key trends and issues highlighted in our recent publication, 'Transforming Service Delivery: An Insight Report'. The report investigates the most pressing issues affecting field service organisations today and provides expert insight into how to transform your operations, from measuring service performance and mobile worker productivity to delivering customer service excellence and utilising data from the field effectively.

Day One: 14:15 Panel Discussion- The Future of Field Service: A discussion on the emerging technologies that could change field service, as we know it.

SGSA's Isobel Van der Vegt explains why training is essential, training dollars are limited and the expenditure must be justified. Some training fails to deliver the expected performance improvement and therefore the essential Return on Investment. This presentation will highlight the role of managers in achieving three things: evaluating the effectiveness of training, calculating the Return on Investment and ensuring that training results in performance improvement. Securing budget and booking the class are only the first steps of the process but, by themselves, will not drive the changes in behaviour that we need.

Field Service News Editor Kris Oldland, reveals the findings from an exclusive research project undertaken by Field Service News in partnership with mplsystems exploring what software systems are being used Service Managers today and whether they are meeting the needs of the industry.

Roddy Graham, Chairman of the Institute of Car Fleet Management will provide top tips for greening your fleet. He will consider what needs to be done to achieve substantial savings while boosting corporate social responsibility credentials. ICFM tips include gaining stakeholder buy-in, running a technologically neutral fleet, establishing CO2 targets and influencing driver behaviour.

Kris Oldland, Editor of Field Service News will interview Tim Jones, European Service Director, Waters Corporation about his recent move to decentralise the dispatch responsibilities of his field service operations, how he approached it, why he made the move and whether it has proved successful.

UBM Live's Protection & Management Series unites business professionals across the fields of security, fire, safety, facilities, energy and environment at IFSEC International, Safety & Health Expo, Facilities Show, FIREX International and Energy & Environment Expo. In 2014 the events will take place at the ExCeL London from 17-19 June.

Die auf diesen Seiten veröffentlichten Inhalte sind PR-Material von Kunden der news aktuell GmbH.  Inhaltlich verantwortlich ist der jeweilige Kunde von news aktuell.  news aktuell übernimmt zudem keine Haftung für die Inhalte externer Links.  Für den Inhalt der verlinkten Seiten sind ausschließlich deren Betreiber verantwortlich.  Das hier veröffentlichte Material ist - ggfs. im Rahmen der jeweils genannten Nutzungsbedingungen -  frei zur redaktionellen Verwendung sowie zur persönlichen Information des Nutzers.  Eine darüber hinausgehende Speicherung, Veröffentlichung bzw. Weitergabe an Dritte im Rahmen gewerblicher Zwecke  ist nur mit schriftlicher Genehmigung durch die news aktuell GmbH gestattet.  Für den Fall, dass Sie die Inhalte der news aktuell GmbH im Rahmen eines eigenen redaktionellen Angebots im  Original veröffentlichen möchten, bieten wir Ihnen an, Content-Partner zu werden.
