
SHANGHAI, May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Hanwha SolarOne Co. Ltd. (Hanwha SolarOne, or the Company) HSOL, +0.00% a top-10 global photovoltaic manufacturer of high-quality, cost-competitive solar modules, will showcase modules from its latest HSL Series – the HSL 60 Poly Hot Environment Module - alongside its best-seller - HSL 60 Poly which has recently passed the stringent Long-Term Sequential Test by TÜV Rheinland, and the HSL 60 Poly Smart Module - at the SNEC PV Power Expo 2014. With improved innovative features and proven excellent quality, these modules demonstrated Hanwha SolarOne’s continued efforts in enabling optimal product performance in the real world. The company further underlined its confidence in ushering in a brighter future in the solar industry together with industry peers.

The HSL 60 Poly has a predictable output and innovative anti-reflective coating for high sunlight absorption. It is coupled with anti-PID function and robust design while backed by a 12 year product warranty as well as 25 year linear performance warranty. Furthermore, the HSL 60 Poly Hot Environment is specifically optimized for high temperature area and is equipped with additional anti-dust and sand abrasion, anti-UV, and anti-thermal features. It can endure harsh desert climate due to its high reliability and good performance. In addition, HSL 60 Poly Smart Module brings the Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) feature to the module level, which enhances safety, flexibility and enables real time monitoring system.

“As one of the world’s leading solar companies, not only are our efforts focused on advancing the modules, we are also focused on continuously evolving our business through a forward thinking mindset. This combination enables us to meet local market conditions while fueling local market growth and benefitting our downstream businesses in China.” added by Mr. Nam.

Hanwha SolarOne has already secured several strategic partnerships in China with over 1 GW pipeline. The company also recently completed the 31 MW EPC project in Guangzhou in April, which is one of the largest rooftop projects in Asia. Through these projects, Hanwha SolarOne demonstrated its strong momentum in establishing its downstream business in China.

Hanwha SolarOne invites SNEC PV Power Expo 2014 participants to visit the company’s booth, at Hall E1, Booth No. 330, to learn more about its product portfolio and business in China.

Hanwha SolarOne Co., Ltd. HSOL, +0.00% is one of the top 10 photovoltaic module manufacturers in the world, providing cost-competitive, high quality PV modules. It is a flagship company of Hanwha Group, one of the largest business enterprises in South Korea. Hanwha SolarOne serves the utility, commercial, government and residential markets through a growing network of third-party distributors, OEM manufacturers and system integrators. The company maintains a strong presence worldwide, with a global business network spanning Europe, North America, Asia, South America, Africa and the Middle East. For more information, please visit: www.hanwha-solarone.com .

This press release contains forward-looking statements. These statements constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar statements. Among other things, the quotations from management in this press release and the Company’s operations and business outlook, contain forward-looking statements. Such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Further information regarding these and other risks is included in Hanwha SolarOne’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 20-F. Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

SOURCE: Hanwha SolarOne Co., Ltd.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
