
Vigilance  Networks , formerly known as Vibesec, a security intelligence  company, today announced that Egged, an Israel-based public  transportation company, is deploying the Vigilance Security Intelligence  Platform as it looks to proactively protect its Cisco-based voice over  IP (VoIP) network for its corporate headquarters and remote offices.  Designed to protect real-time IP communications against threats,  vulnerabilities, cyber attacks and toll fraud, Vigilance Networks’  Security Intelligence Platform effectively secures the unified  communications (UC) and IP Telephony networks that standard IT and data  security solutions are unable to adequately protect. As a result, Egged  is now able to receive real-time insight and understanding of their  vulnerabilities and networks as they look to mitigate cyber threats.

Operating over 55 percent of Israel’s bus service with nearly 1 million  passengers, Egged began experiencing threats to their UC network. As a  multi-national company with employees working out of either the  headquarters or one of the remote locations – including several regional  offices, a call center and a repair depot – Egged saw the need to deploy  enhanced security features before a full-blown attack crippled the  network and impacted transportation services. Demanding separate,  specialized security for each location, Egged looked for a solution that  could secure the headquarters with an emphasis on prevention of  information leaks and user identity theft, as well as prevention of toll  fraud at the regional offices. Without wanting to deploy multiple  security solutions, Egged demanded the ability to manage security, fraud  and call policy from a single, unified pane of glass.

By deploying Vigilance Networks’ Security Intelligence Platform, Egged  was able to seamlessly integrate the security functions into existing  technology, including session border controllers, communications  servers, voicemail servers and media gateways. Vigilance Networks’  platform delivers an unprecedented amount of actionable intelligence  about the known and unknown threats to Egged’s IP network. These include  real-time threat, fraud and security intelligence that can be used to  combat attacks as they happen, and prevent them from happening at all.  As a result, Egged is able to effectively manage and monitor security,  both internally and at the perimeter.

Vigilance Networks™ is a privately held security intelligence company  specializing in real time IP networks and applications. Its innovative  platform allows enterprises, service providers, and governments to  secure their networks and applications, while safely enable the  increasingly complex and rapidly growing number of real time IP  applications and mobile end points, including wearable technologies. The  core of Vigilance Networks Security Intelligence platform is its  Next-Generation Analytics Engine, which delivers application, element,  user, and pattern visibility and control in a virtualized, cloud-based  environment. Vigilance Networks' products and services address a broad  range of network security requirements, from the data center to the  network perimeter, as well as the distributed enterprise, which includes  branch offices and a growing number of mobile devices. For more  information, visit www.VigilanceNetworks.com .
