
OneAccess, a global provider of specialist multi-service access routers for telecom operators and communication service providers, has been selected by Tokheim, a global managed service provider specializing in the retail oil and gas industry, to optimize and future-proof its business-critical network that connects thousands of petrol service station customers worldwide.

Tokheim connects its customers' forecourts via Tokheim Net, a purpose-built international network which supports a range of critical business processes, including PCI-DSS compliant point-of-sale (POS) connectivity required for fuel sales, secure virtual private network (VPN) remote access and a combination of remote backup options, including over 3G. OneAccess was chosen to provide strategic and technical support together with the network access equipment required to upgrade the legacy VPN configuration.

OneAccess, which offers the widest range of access technologies available in the market, has delivered a reliable, secure and future-proofed network by configuring its multi-service access routers to provide a single, dispersed, centrally managed application delivery platform. The solution was rapidly integrated with Tokheim's existing infrastructure in order to centralize the network's monitoring and management capabilities and optimize the performance of the applications that enable the filling pumps, POS terminals and other devices deployed on its customers' forecourts.

Tokheim can now remotely provision the entire network and, through embedded service level indicators, remove the need for costly on-site assistance, enabling it to enhance operational efficiencies. As a result of the implementation, Tokheim can now take full network ownership and operate exclusively of local Internet Service Providers (ISPs), or by securely utilizing local ISP network connections, according to each location's available access methods.

The implementation, which was trialled throughout 2013, has been recognized as a networking industry innovation at the 2014 Global Telecoms Business (GTB) Innovation Awards held in London on 14th May, where it received the Business Service Innovation Award.

Ward Dewerchin, Manager, Host Services and Data Communication, Systems & Electronics Business Unit, Tokheim says: "In early 2013, we were looking for a new partner to support the rapidly evolving Tokheim Net. The network was becoming increasingly sophisticated and needed to be upgraded and managed. We were working with a network solutions provider which operated through a distributor, but felt it was important that we established a value-added partnership with a vendor that could work directly with us and be able to react quickly to the changing needs of the network. OneAccess was the obvious choice, providing access versatility, experience in distributed enterprise connections, integration support for its services and cost-effectiveness.

"OneAccess gave us a clear overview of its product roadmap and offered unrivalled access technologies and connectivity options, along with a great level of support. Trials were conducted throughout 2013, with the first fully integrated installations completed in December at seven Belgian sites including Turnhout, Geel and Leuven."

"By working together with Tokheim, we were able to configure a future-proofed, centrally managed network that can flex and scale in accordance with the changing demands of the business," comments Betrand Meis, CEO, OneAccess. "The end result is a network architecture that not only meets today's needs, but can also support the introduction of future services that could further enhance performance, such as LTE backhaul or next generation satellite VPNs. We are delighted that this project has been recognized by the telecoms industry with a GTB award."

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
