
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

CLEVELAND, Ohio – The president of Browns' owner Jimmy Haslam's family business, Pilot Flying J, and another top sales employee have left the company amid a federal investigation into allegations of a massive rebate fraud on trucking companies , sources told The Plain Dealer.

Mark Hazelwood, the company's president, is one of the top executives named in a 120-page federal affidavit last April that suggested he and Haslam knew about the fraud, which took place over several years. Haslam has denied any knowledge of the scheme. Neither he nor Hazelwood has been charged.

A source would not specify whether Hazelwood was fired or resigned on his own, only that an internal memo was sent to company employees Monday that said he was no longer with the company. The company, the nation's largest operator of travel centers, has declined to address Hazelwood's departure.

Rusty Hardin, who has represented Hazelwood, could not be reached for comment. A message left at Hazelwood's home was not returned Monday.

Another employee, Scott Wombold, also has left the company, sources confirmed. Wombold served as the vice president of national accounts. Hazelwood supervised Wombold, according to the federal affidavit. Wombold could not be reached.

Already, 10 employees have pleaded guilty to federal charges in U.S. District Court in Knoxville, Tenn. Each has agreed to cooperate against others in the case. More charges are expected.

The company also has been sued more than 30 times in state and federal courts, and the company has paid out $85 million in settlements to trucking companies.

In an interview with The Plain Dealer in March, Hardin said prosecutors have not contacted his client since April 15, 2013, when federal agents raided Pilot Flying J.

"Our position has never changed,'' Hardin said then. "We didn't know anything improper was going on, and we certainly would never have condoned it. We are trying to make amends with any and all trucking companies who say they were harmed.''

The federal affidavit, written by FBI agent Robert Root, said, "The rebate fraud has occurred with the knowledge of Pilot's current President Mark Hazelwood and Pilot's Chief Executive Officer James A. 'Jimmy' Haslam III, due to the fact that the rebate fraud-related activities have been discussed during sales meetings in Knoxville, Tenn., in which Hazelwood and Haslam have been present.''

Root's affidavit accused several Pilot Flying J sales people of fleecing unsophisticated trucking companies through a company-wide rebate program.

The rebate program, records show, worked like this: Trucking companies obtained discounts based on the number of gallons of diesel fuel purchased at Pilot Flying J. Each month, Pilot Flying J would send a rebate check to the trucking company.

But the issue was hardly simple, as different Pilot Flying J travel centers offered different rebates, based on a number of issues, records show.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.   To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
