
Nick Bell, CEO of Decision Inc.

Decision Inc will be showcasing its business intelligence (BI) technologies at the 36th annual SAPICS Conference and Exhibition for supply chain professionals taking place from 1 to 3 June at Sun City.

The company will use the event, considered to be the most influential of its kind on the continent, to illustrate how it uses best-of-breed technologies combined with supply chain knowledge and business experience to enable effective, rapid decision making.

"It is expected that more than 1 000 supply chain professionals will attend SAPICS this year. As a BI provider with extensive supply chain experience and a number of logistics clients, Decision Inc is excited about the potential that demonstrating our solutions to such an influential audience will have for our brand," says Nick Bell, CEO of Decision Inc.

While the conference is geared to providing delegates with valuable knowledge sharing sessions, the exhibition will feature more than 50 different companies sharing insights and demonstrations of progressive technology and supply chain best practices and solutions.

"When we formed Decision Inc, our vision was to add real value to clients by providing business and process knowledge and leveraging the power of information through robust data and "best-of-breed" platform technologies. This event gives us an opportunity to discuss with executives how they can realise real value from their investment in decision support technology. We will demonstrate that the provision of technical and relevant business knowledge across the BI value chain will help them make better decisions, faster," says Bell.

Decision Inc was launched earlier this year following the merger between ASYST Intelligence, BusinessIntelligent, and the Microsoft division of DigiQuill,

Although predominantly in South Africa, Decision Inc services clients in Botswana, Namibia, Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Ghana, and Zambia.

"Our combination of business and technical competence helps business gain critical insight from their data," said Bell.

"We represent global software vendors QlikView, SAP, Microsoft, Roambi, MicroStrategy, and IsoMetrix, and are proficient in the implementation, support, and execution of these technologies. We look forward to interacting with SAPICS delegates to show them how this technology can assist in improving their supply chain processes and business efficiencies."

Decision Inc is a leader in enabling its clients to make better decisions, faster. The Company's foundation is built in technology; however what makes it unique is its understanding of effective decision making.

The company represents leading global technology brands SAP BusinessObjects, Qlikview, Microsoft, Roambi and MicroStrategy and is an expert in the implementation, support and execution of these technologies.

Decision Inc's clients trust the company to provide them with an enhanced capability to make informed decisions. The commpany leverages the strengths of these relationships to provide them with solutions that deliver value to their business. Consultants have in-depth industry knowledge and technical expertise to assist organisations with their definition, implementation and support of decision making processes.

The four key pillars of Decision Inc dedicate experienced consulting resources to deliver decision advisory and strategy capabilities; data engineering; insight generation and presentation; and solution enablement and support.

Warren Olivier from Veeam Software                 will show you how                 it's done.

Copyright (c) 1996 - 2014 ITWeb Limited. All rights reserved.

STAY INFORMED!
