
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Shareholders were told investment bank Goldman Sachs has provided the board with strategic advice, with various alternatives being assessed although any decision on the way forward likely to be several months off.

This comes amid the lack of any signs of a recovery in demand for the group's services with the prospect of a further decline in the coming months, shareholders were told.

"We are assessing a number of alternatives and in the next two to three months hope to have determined which alternative [to take] and decide well before the end of the year," chairman Barbara Jeremiah told shareholders at Monday's annual general meeting.

"We've invested something you haven't," Boart Longyear director Roger Brown told the meeting when responding to criticism some directors had only minor shareholdings in the company.

"We've invested our reputation. Everyone of us has invested in successful companies - and this won't be the first time that hasn't happened."

Another director, Roy Franklin said he'd invested three quarters of his directors fees after tax in Boart Longyear shares.

"I've spent sleepless nights," he said "Yes, we took on too much debt at just the wrong time.

"We do have some very serious challenges to deal with in the short term," he said.

Boart Longyear managing director Richard O'Brien denied the company was in ''work out'', with its lenders calling the shots due to the high level of borrowings.

Stephen Mayne of the Australian Shareholders Association questioned the gap between the sharemarket's valuation of Boart Longyear - $100 million - and the balance sheet worth of the company of $460 million.

"The accounts are far more optimistic than the market," he said.

At the meeting, 99.9 million of votes cast were in favour of the remuneration report but 75.6 million opposed it, 43 per cent of the votes cast.

If more than 25 per cent of votes cast at an annual meeting oppose a directors remuneration report, then the board must resign.

''We frankly are surprised by the result,'' chairman Jeremiah said at the meeting, saying proxy groups had not indicated their concerns to the company on the issue.

You'll be able to work from gate to gate ... as long as you have the right device.
