
Editor’s note: This is the first in an intermittent series looking at how patent trolls are affecting businesses. If you have been a target of patent trolls, contact reporter Jessica Holbrook at 330-580-8322.

If you’re a business owner, a lawsuit can be terrifying and expensive.

One group of businesses is banking on that.

Patent trolls — more politely called patent assertion entities — tend to hold multiple patents but don’t offer goods or services. Instead, their core business is threatening litigation and demanding licensing fees from other businesses who violate their patents.

Trolls have become a growing blight on the economy, said Charlie Patterson with the Main Street Patent Coalition, a non-partisan group of business organizations focused on encouraging congress to pass patent reform legislation.

“They’re basically just abusing the system — and it’s an important system, the patent system is hugely important — but they have figured out a way to use it to profit at the expense of others,” Patterson said.

Trolls tend to acquire broadly-written technology patents or patents that can be applied generally, like the patent for using a shopping cart icon on an e-commerce site or one for offering public WiFi, Patterson said.

They send letters, usually en-masse and sometimes through a shell corporation, to businesses they believe are violating the patents, he said. The letters are vague, with confusing and threatening language, and ultimately threaten to sue if licensing fees aren’t paid.

“It’s essentially extortion,” Patterson said.

Trolls are hoping that a business will pay the fee or settle the matter out of court, said Howard Wernow, a patent attorney with Sand & Sebolt LPA, an intellectual-property law firm in Jackson Township.

You can usually distinguish a letter from a patent troll from a typical cease-and-desist letter because a troll will immediately mention payment, Wernow said.

Most trolls ask for an amount that’s high enough they can pay their own lawyers, but low enough that you won’t want to hire an attorney, typically less than $100,000, he said.

Wernow added that $50,000 could be a mom-and-pop’s gross profits for the year.

Patent litigation is a highly-specialized field and is therefore very expensive, it would be really easy to rack up a $50,000 bill in the early stages of a suit, he said.

Page 2 of 3 - Intellectual property trials can take four or five years, he added.

The troll’s claims are usually pretty weak, so when a business does take them to court, they usually end up winning, Patterson said.

But businesses targeted by trolls have to weigh their options; they can either pay the demanded fees, which would hurt their bottom line and could ultimately impede their ability to do business, or they could pay for legal counsel and take the matter to court which could end up costing even more, Patterson said.

Trolls are selective about who they target — you don’t want to waste time on a business that only has $100 in profits every year, but you also don’t want to target a big player with the means to fight back, Wernow said.

They tend to target businesses with about $1 million in annual gross profits. Businesses of that size make up a big part of the economy, so patent trolls can have a detrimental effect on the economy, he said.

In 2011, patent trolls had an estimated direct cost of $29 billion, much of the burden falling on small to medium-sized companies, according to a Boston University study.

That does not include indirect costs, which could be much higher, according to the study.

Also in 2011, 2,150 companies had to mount 5,842 defenses in lawsuits initiated by the actions of patent trolls, according to the study.

Local businesses have been targeted by patent trolls, Patterson said.

While trolls may have initially eyed tech firms, they now don’t discriminate against industries or locations. Low-tech businesses that are often the end-users of the patented technology — like hotels, restaurants and retail stores — are targeted, Patterson said.

If you receive a letter demanding a fee or threatening litigation, even if you’re not sure if it’s from a patent troll, contact a patent attorney, said Wernow.

Many patent attorneys will do low-cost or even free initial consultations. An attorney can help determine if the claim is a valid one, and they’ll lay out your options and help you decide how to proceed, he said.

A patent attorney has knowledge of intellectual property law that a regular attorney doesn’t have, he said.

Page 3 of 3 - “The biggest advice I can give is do not ignore the letter,” he said.

You must respond, even if it’s just to have your attorney send one letter disputing the claim, he said.

If you do nothing, the troll will likely file suit against you, he said.

Federal legislation could bring some reprieve to businesses targeted by trolls.

The Innovation Act of 2013, a bipartisan patent reform bill designed to curtail patent trolls, passed the U.S. House of Representatives in December 2013.

A similar bill, The Patents Transparency and Improvements Act of 2013, is still in the Senate.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
