
Two former mining engineers of TVI Resources Development, Inc. Philippines (TVIRD-Philippines) has joined Atro Mining-Vitali, Inc. (AMVI) to boost its pool of technical team with “solid track record in responsible mining”.

In a statement sent to media, AMVI announced that the latest to join the company is Engr. Paulo Dino P. Fulong.

He was the Sr. Mining Engineer/Mine Production Supervisor of TVIRD prior to his hiring with AMVI.

His previous employment records include the following: Jr. Mining Engineer, TVIRD; Safety Engineer, MG Mining and Energy Corporation, Bislig Coal Project, Barangay Mangagoy, Bislig, Surigao del Sur; and Safety Engineer and Environmental Officer, Philippine Mining Development Corporation, Diwalwal Direct State Development,

BarangayDiwata, Monkayo, Compostela Valley.

Engr. Fulong finished his Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering at the University of the Philippines-Diliman and passed the 2007 Mining Engineering Board Examinations.

Another TVIRD engineer who has joined AMVI since 2012 is Engr. Reinnier John Sunico.

Engr. Sunico is a graduate of Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering of the University of the Philippines. He passed the licensure examinations in 2007.

He was formerly with TVIRD as Mining Planning Engineer;Manganese Mineral Belt Mining Development Corporation asTenements Officer; and APC Mining Corp. as Tenements officer/Project Engineer.

“They will bring their wealth of knowledge and experience with TVIRD to our operations especially in the conduct of mining operations responsibly,” the company said.

AMVI is the exclusive operator of Hard Rock Minerals Trading, Inc. (HRMTI) for its Mineral Production Sharing Agreement (MPSA) denominated as MPSA No. 237-2007-IX covering an area of 2,007.3084 hectares located at Upper Tagpangi, Vitali, this city.

The mining company has concluded its first-stage exploration program and is set to start production after the Mines and Geosciences Bureau approved its Declaration of Mining Project Feasibility (DMPF) recently.
