
Grow Calgary farm manager Paul Hughes and a group of dedicated volunteers turned a nine-acre parcel of land just west of Canada Olympic Park into one of Canada's largest urban agricultural farms. Grow Calgary's goal is to grow fresh produce for the Calgary Interfaith Food Bank and to ensure all Calgarians have access to healthy, local food.

Calgarians hard up for a meal will have access to a bounty of fresh produce for the second year in a row, thanks in part to a grassroots urban farm.

Grow Calgary is a 4.5-hectare pocket of land situated just west of Canada Olympic Park. The brainchild of self-described food activist Paul Hughes, its entire harvest is being donated to the Calgary Inter-Faith Food Bank.

“It’s a really interesting project, being able to connect . . . that unused agrarian area with empty stomachs,” said Hughes, who spent part of his childhood on a farm in Pitt Meadows, B.C.

Considered the largest urban farm in Canada, Grow Calgary launched last May, producing 20 truckloads in its first season. This year, the goal is to harvest five times as much.

“The soil structure is really good, it’s totally functional, but what you have to do is add nutrients,” said Hughes. Seeding began this week for crops including beets, beans, cabbage, carrots, kale, onions and tomatoes.

Part of the goal is to increase the nutritional value of food hampers being sent out to Calgary’s vulnerable populations. Typically, food bank donations consist of non-perishable items.

Calgarians have connected with the movement, said Hughes, noting that the organization is run entirely by volunteers — more than 500 of them. Positions range from digging and weeding to organizing events and doing social media.

“A lot of folks come out and really enjoy this experience,” said Hughes.

Shawna Ogston, a spokeswoman with the food bank, said the partnership has been extremely beneficial.

“It’s really important for our hampers to meet Canada’s food guidelines and fresh is always best,” she said. Plus, she said, having food on the table allows clients to focus on other problems they might be facing.

The food bank does accept fresh food donations, but those need to be brought directly to their warehouse.

“We can get them in our fridges and get them into clients’ hands right away,” said Ogston.

For more information, go to growcalgary.ca.

Grow Calgary volunteers Paul Hughes and his son Mac, centre, work the soil with the help of Anne-Claire Antoine, left, and Isabel Graefendorf from the World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms on Monday. Grow Calgary donates all the food harvested to the Calgary Inter-Faith Food Bank.
