
Burger King has scrapped its longtime slogan for a more personal motto.

The burger chain is reportedly looking to adopt a more personal approach with its new tagline, which will be introduced across the United States in a television ad that begins airing Monday evening. If you’re scratching your head over the sudden and strange update, you’re not alone.

“Is that even English?” one editor asked when I mentioned the news.

Well no, but so far the company seems less concerned with semantics than improving its image.

The motto switch, which has already attracted some words of warning from the advertising industry, was created by an outside agency called David .

Laura Ries, president of the consulting firm Ries & Ries , told the AP that the company might be seen as overreaching.

"The problem is that people don't see themselves as living the Burger King lifestyle," said Ries. "You've got to be realistic with the place that your brand holds in real life."

Karen Lo is an associate editor at The Daily Meal. Follow her on Twitter @appleplexy .

This is shit.  Which is what you should expect from an agency that is so uncreative that they took their name from a legend in the advertising world instead of creating something unique.

Regardless, there's no "Burger Lifestyle".  Not every company can have a lifestyle associated with it.  Marketers need to stop having romantic fantasies about what a product could be.  Be honest and find the truth in the product.

The grammatically correct claims are without legs to stand on.  That same argument was made in the boardroom when they were pitching "Got Milk?" and that seemed to do alright.

Grammatically incorrect motto just proves that fast food is one of the causes of the dumbing down of America. The new motto sounds like it was made up by someone who's trying to learn English.

They say that fast food is part of the cause for the dumbing down of America. I guess this new slogan kind of proves that.

Considering that the slogan isn't even proper English ("Be yourself" might have worked, or "Go your way", or "Do your thing", or any number of similar, grammatically correct phrases), could this serve as kind of proof that fast food lowers your IQ? The phrase looks like it was written in Japan or China, where strange English often appears on T-shirts or posters. Wonder how long it will be before they change it again (or maybe even change it back).

Why can't companies leave well enough alone?...another idiot idea...the new motto doe's not make sense...another college grad trying to impress the BOSS..

Enter the characters shown in the image.

Be the first to know. We'll e-mail you when we write about your topics of interest!
