
Punjab Minister for Local Government and Law Rana Sanaullah Khan laid foundation stone of extension block of 48-bedded emergency ward at Faisalabad Institute of Cardiology (FIC). This project would be completed with the donation of family of local deceased industrialist Muhammad Anwar Sajjad. Chairman Board of Management FIC Khuwaja Asim Khurshid, Executive Director Dr Raja Parvez Akhtar, MS Dr Ziaullah, Mrs Muhammad Anwar Sajjad and her familymembers were also present on the occasion.

Law Minister Rana Sanaullah Khan appreciated the services and performance of FIC and thanked the family of Muhammad Anwar Sajjad for generous donation for the establishment of extension block of emergency ward which was dire need of the time due to the rush of the heart patients. He lauded the noble sentiments of the family of Muhammad Anwar Sajjad and said it was great deed for the service of the ailing humanity.

He said Punjab government is following comprehensive programme for the provision of advanced and quality medical facilities in the province. He said the strategy has been devised for the setting of specified hospital for the different diseases on modern lines. He said the special measures are also taken for the development and extension of the FIC so as this hospital should be not only catering the needs of Faisalabad but also patients of the adjoining districts approaching for medical treatment of heart diseases from this modern medical institution.

Chairman Board of Management Kh Asim Khurshid said 20-bedded emergency ward was insufficient and project of extension of emergency ward has been conceived to complete on self-help basis. He said the family of Muhammad Anwar Sajjad announced to provide donation for its entire completion. He informed that a state-of-the-art CCUIII would be established on the upper storey of extended emergency block which would be valued edition for the treatment of heart patients. Begum Muhammad Anwar Sajjad said her family would provide all the expenditure for the completion of "Muhammad Anwar Sajjad Emergency Block" and they are doing this only to please the Allah Almighty.
