
CIO Review selects Kepion as one of the Top 10 Most Promising Financial Planning and Analysis Software Providers 2014 for providing fast and flexible performance management solutions that anyone can use.

We have always been focused on providing our customers with a flexible solution that can address the core challenges of planning and analysis in not only finance, but also in sales and operations.

Kepion, the leading provider of CPM solutions on Microsoft, announced today that CIO Review, a leading technology magazine that covers enterprise solutions, has named Kepion as one of the Top 10 Most Promising Financial Planning and Analysis Software Providers 2014.

This award is given to the top 10 companies that have come up with innovative enterprise solutions that are transforming the way enterprise financial planning and analysis functions.

The CIO Review team believe that these top 10 recognized companies are at the forefront of providing solutions to support business strategy, competitive analysis and overall performance planning and management.  The judging panel is comprised of CEOs, CIOs of public companies, analysts and the CIO Review editorial board.

Kepion offers both cloud and on premise corporate performance management (CPM) solutions on the Microsoft Azure and Business Intelligence (BI) platform.  Customers such as Energizer, GE Capital and Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals have used Kepion to streamline their budgeting and forecasting process for real time reporting and analysis.  Some of the commonly built apps include expense budgeting, revenue forecasting, strategic planning, workforce planning, capital expenditures, demand planning, capacity planning, and trade and promotions planning.

CIO Review is a technology magazine that talks about the enterprise solutions that can redefine the business goals of enterprises tomorrow. It is the leading source that shares innovative enterprise solutions developed by established solutions providers, upcoming hot enterprises and is a neutral source for technology decision makers. Published from Fremont, California, CIO Review is an excellent platform for the enterprise to showcase their innovative solutions.
