
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Florida Governor Rick Scott delivers the State of the State address in the Florida House as the members of the Florida Senate and House join together on the opening day of the 2014 legislature on Tuesday March 4, 2014.

Florida's record state spending plan is packed with millions of dollars for Big Bend projects.

Leon County's legislative delegation and advocates for the projects are working hard to persuade Gov. Rick Scott to keep local funding intact, Scott and his staff are expected to scour the $77.1-billion budget to determine what to spare and what to veto.

Scott has line-item veto power over the budget and has the authority to eliminate funding for specific projects. The Republican governor hasn't been shy about using the veto pen in his first three years in office. When the 432-page document, not including scores of pages of implementing legislation, is officially delivered by the Legislature, the 15-day clock will begin on Scott and his office. His election-year budget action could come before the end of the month.

With more money available to lawmakers than has been the case in years, local legislators hope they'll be spared a veto and secure the hundreds of thousands successfully included in the budget.

In 2011, his first budget, Scott cut a record $615 million, solidifying his reputation as a fiscal conservative.

Now, political analysts say Scott could go either way; cutting spending for local projects or choosing to be more willing to divvy out money in the hope it might make voters happy.

"I think we're going to see a lot of line-item vetoes," Florida State University political science professor Carol Weissert said. "Because the budget is big and it's good for governors to present themselves as budget slashers."

Weissert said Scott could be eager to protect spending, but he could play to both sides, offering special-interest groups funding while also cutting hundreds of millions.

"The election is front and center I think, but it's going to be very important," Weissert said. "The governor is going to use whatever powers he has to enhance his election. I think any governor would do that."

The budget is full of local items from funding for water projects and colleges and the usual operating and maintenance costs for universities, but there's also a selection focused on cultural endeavors and a state-of-the-art homeless services center in Leon County.

If it survives the governor's review, $475,000 would go to the Theatre Tallahassee for renovations of its more than 50-year-old building to include a black-box theater and upgrades in lounge seating.

The theater qualified through a Department of State cultural grant.

Executive Director Theresa Davis said the theater won the same cultural grant in 1992 and, besides minor renovations and the addition of seats in the main auditorium, not much has been done since then. The needs of the theater have outgrown the space, she said.

Theatre Tallahassee funding, which it would have to match with its own money, is bundled in the budget with 27 other competitively ranked cultural projects around the state, meaning Scott must either keep or veto the entire group.

Davis said that may be what ensures the funding.

"We feel safer in the fact that we are part of a grant program and not a special project," she said. "While we're still a little nervous, we're not acting on it until we're not starting on any renovations. We're still holding our breath."

Through the state's Division of Historical Resources, Mission San Luis, a colonial Spanish "living museum," has $140,000 of fixed capital outlay funding for renovations to on-site buildings, a new cannon carriage, parking improvements and maintenance and reconstruction on three of the main buildings on the property.

The Mission does not hold outdoor activities at night, but $25,000 of the overall budget item is meant to go toward installation of outdoor lighting.

Also in the budget is $400,000 for the African-American Heritage Preservation Network, a statewide network of historical and artifact materials, has been included in the state's spending plan again this year. It has been cut from the budget three times — most recently in 2012 — by Scott, but last year $350,000 made it into the hands of the 39 historical sites statewide.

Heritage Network Founder Althemese Barnes said being at the John G. Riley House in Tallahassee helps give her direct access to lawmakers who support holding on to important relics from the past. She and others try to keep African-American history in communities across the state in the minds of legislators.

"Our role, because we're here, the other network members rely on us to do the legwork and keep their local officials attuned to what we're about," Barnes said.

Rep. Michelle Rehwinkel Vasilinda, D-Tallahassee, said in years past, tight budgets meant many projects missed out on funding. Things have changed this year, she said.

"These are projects we have not been able to put in the budget during bad recession years," Rehwinkel Vasilinda said. "But now going forward these are great economic development pieces for our community."

She said in her conversations with Scott and his staff, she believes he will be generous with local projects, not just in Leon County, but statewide.

One effort that has found a home in Tallahassee and support from around the state is a $100,000 request to help fund an all-encompassing emergency services center for the homeless on West Pensacola Street.

Ground has already been broken, but Sen. Bill Galvano, a Republican from Bradenton, said the new complex — a one-stop service center housing medical, residential and more than 50 other service providers in the same building — could serve as a statewide model for addressing homelessness.

Galvano visited the site and helped to get the funding for the center in the budget after seeing how it works in a similar center in Manatee County.

"It's not just about the service, it's about effectiveness," Galvano said, "as opposed to a piecemeal operation that leaves people in a lurch for an extended period of time."

Galvano said he recently met with Scott and budget staff and said it is high-priority on his list.

"That doesn't mean that it will automatically avoid the veto, but I think it helps," he said. "It's about being efficient and it's about getting people back into a productive lifestyle. These are themes I feel the governor should support."

Local officials are continuing to meet with Scott to push for their projects.

"We have to do our job," said Sen. Bill Montford, a Democrat from Tallahassee. "We have to make sure that we let the governor know how important these projects are for North Florida, especially Tallahassee and Leon County."

Montford was hesitant to say the election year could change the governor's approach to the budget.

"He's a real strict business person and he uses that veto pen quite liberally sometimes so we're a little concerned about it," Montford said. "I'm not sure he'll be persuaded to go lightly."

Rehwinkel Vasilinda said the handful of Leon County projects would translate into jobs.

"That is economic development. That serves to get the jobs that then the governor is running on," she said. "Economic development is a very important piece of this community and is very important to a governor's race."

Weissert, at FSU, said while lawmakers have their districts in mind, Scott represents an array of constituents.

"The governor represents all of the citizens of the state," Weissert said. "Where the legislators represent their districts, that is something a lot of governors feel strongly about."
