
) ("Fuelstream" or the "Company") is pleased to announce revenue from fuel deliveries has increased significantly over the past several months. This increase in revenue is directly attributable to the execution of our business plan, which includes strengthening our management team over the past year to better position the Company for growth, the availability of a 30-day credit facility announced on March 6, 2014, and the availability of a customer friendly website announced on May 1, 2014.

Kevin Blanco, Vice President of Sales for Fuelstream, stated, "Our goal is to develop relationships with our customers and make certain we meet their every need. Our customer friendly website is definitely bringing in new business. We are making it as easy as possible for our customers to know the price of fuel at just about any airport on the globe and want to make it as easy as possible for them to order from us." Mr. Blanco continued, "The level of excitement from Fuelstream employees is extremely high. Our contract with the South African Government is getting us to the next level."

In August 2013 Global Airways announced it had appointed Fuelstream as its U.S. representative. Fuelstream CEO, John Thomas, said, "Our business plan calls for a process that can be duplicated in any market and with just about any airline. By the end of the year our goal is to be duplicating this process with five or six airlines. We remain optimistic about the future."

Global Airways is an International Air Transport Organization carrier whose activities cover acquisition, heavy maintenance, refurbishment and leasing of aircraft. Established in 2001, Global Airway's main strategy is to offer full aircraft services and maintenance with a highly trained staff and crew compliment. The Company services many government and regional airlines based in South Africa and the Company is seeking to add fuel serving as a new business unit.

Freight -- expanding its fleet in order to provide wide body freight service from Johannesburg through Africa, Europe, Hong Kong, and the United States.

Passenger Service -- reintroducing service to and from Miami International Airport to Cape Town. This was a very successful route before political commitments in 2004 terminated service. Global Aviation intends to run 4 flights per week round trip.

Fuelstream is an operating fuel logistics company that concentrates its supply chain management efforts in the distribution of aviation fuel to corporate, commercial, military, and privately-owned aircraft throughout the world. Currently, a majority of the Company's fuel and related services are concentrated in the sourcing, purchase and delivery of (Jet-A) fuel "into the wing" of private and commercial aircraft at various airports. With offices in Sunrise, Florida and Johannesburg, South Africa, the Company intends to supply a variety of ground services either directly or through its affiliates, including concierge services, passenger and baggage handling, landing rights, coordination with local aviation authorities, aircraft maintenance services, catering, cabin cleaning, customs approvals, and third-party invoice reconciliations. For more information please visit www.thefuelstream.com .

This press release contains certain forward-looking statements regarding possible future circumstances. These forward-looking statements are based upon the Company's current expectations and assumptions and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in such forward-looking statements including, in particular, any risks and uncertainties with respect to the Company's operations, as well as those contained in the Company's quarterly, annual, and periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results, events, and performance may differ. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as to the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The inclusion of any statement in this release does not constitute an admission by the Company or any other person that the events or circumstances described in such statements are material.
