
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Richard Levick, Esq., is Chairman and CEO of LEVICK, which provides strategic communications counsel on the highest-profile public affairs and business matters globally. Mr. Levick has been named four times as one of “The 100 Most Influential People in the Boardroom.” He is the co-author of four books and a regular commentator on television and LEVICKDaily.com.    Follow Richard Levick on Twitter and circle him on Google+, where he comments daily on public affairs and global business communications issues.

At first glance, the latest jobs report provided encouraging signs that America’s economic recovery is beginning to gain momentum. The U.S. Department of Labor reported that 288,000 jobs were created in April 2014 , the biggest jump in more than two years. At the same time, unemployment dipped 0.4 percentage points to a five-and-a-half year low of 6.3%.

Dive one layer down, however, and that light at the end of the tunnel isn’t quite as bright. 800,000 Americans either retired or gave up looking for work last month . Not only does that figure largely account for the 0.4% decrease in unemployment; it drove the labor force participation rate (a measure some believe to be a far more accurate accounting of the employment landscape) down to 62.8% – or as low as it’s been since March 1978.

Seven years past the financial crisis, we’re still not out of the woods. At this rate, the Great Recession may end up outdistancing the Great Depression before real recovery takes hold (which is not altogether surprising, given that the complexities of today’s global economy require more time to reverse periodic downturns). Yet, still, the policy fixes that have been implemented and floated since Bear and Lehman collapsed continue to overlook the one economic sector that creates more jobs than any other: small business.

If you need more evidence of the powerful correlation between small business growth and economic stability, consider the fact that by June 2011, small business lending had constricted by 18% overall , and that the number of commercial and industrial loans of less than $1 million dropped by 344,000 between 2007 and 2012 – despite an increase of more than 100,000 small business over that period.

It is statistics such as these that led former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to state “Making credit accessible to sound small businesses is crucial to our economic recovery and so should be front and center among our current policy challenges.” And yet, the sweeping programs implemented to date – such as TARP and Dodd-Frank – have been singularly focused on big banks and big business.

While TARP helped shore up behemoths such as Citi and Bank of America, it did little for the community banks small businesses predominantly rely upon, which are in steep decline since 2008. At the same time, the Dodd-Frank measures that built confidence in the big banks created undue regulatory burdens for community lenders that still can’t adequately funnel capital through all that red tape.

As a result, big business lending is up 36% since 2000 and has largely recovered from 2008 lows , according to a 2014 report issued by the Institute for Local Self Reliance. Over the same period, small business loans are down 14% and micro-business loans are down 33% – and neither has begun to climb out of the tailspin that began seven years ago.

While the big banks – some of which slashed small business lending by as much as 84% post-crisis – continue to keep a tight grip on the faucet due to higher monitoring costs per dollar of funds borrowed and lack of capital to back up incurred debt, the community banks willing to back small business are drowning in policy that puts them at the back of the line.

Worse yet, the problems aren’t solely relegated to the banking sector. Non-bank institutions seeking market-based solutions to small business lending are feeling a policy squeeze as well. Sam Hodges is the Founder and Managing Director of Funding Circle USA , an online loan marketplace and underwriter that seeks to connect investors with small businesses seeking loans of up to $500,000. Mr. Hodges and others see great potential in non-bank lending’s ability to get capital flowing to small business, but he is operating under a regulatory framework that simply hasn’t kept pace with innovation.

At a time when 42% of small business owners seeking loans over the last two years report that they are unable secure capital ; when the inability to secure credit is the third most frequently cited financial problem small business owners face; and when it takes as much as six months to secure capital from the SBA, America needs build on the progress that’s been made by diminishing the barriers that stand between strong demand for credit and the supply of capital that can get America’s real job creators growing again.

It’s Mom and Pop that hold the keys to real recovery. It’s time we empowered them with the tools they need to succeed.

Richard Levick, Esq., is Chairman and CEO of  LEVICK , a global strategic communications firm.
