
SANTA CRUZ &GT;&GT; Despite more than 100 local bone marrow drives held in his honor, Ryan Manansala has not found a match in two years.

Since his leukemia diagnosis in February 2012, the 29-year-old UC Santa Cruz alum and San Jose native said he's been on an emotional roller coaster.

It began with headaches and bleeding from his nose and gums.

Then came five rounds of chemotherapy, three months in the hospital.

"I had no eyebrows, no eyelashes," said Manansala. "I was originally 145 pounds. When I left the hospital, I was 120."

His cancer disappeared in July 2012.

For leukemia patients, when the cancer recedes, a bone marrow transplant is needed quickly to restore cells destroyed during chemotherapy. Since no matches were available, Manansala received umbilical cord cells, a less reliable option, he said.

A year later, Manansala found the cancer had returned.

Doctors monitored his blast percentage, a count of immature white blood cells in his bone marrow and blood. To be considered in remission, patients must have less than a 5 percent count.

Manansala watched his count climb, from 2 percent in August 2013 to 30 percent in December 2013, when he was hospitalized, he said.

Since chemotherapy didn't work, Manansala said he decided to try a clinical trial.

He and his father visited the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston for six weeks and returned last month, disappointed.

Manansala's count is now at 94 percent, the highest yet, he said.

He said he sometimes feels overwhelmed, but remains focused with treatment and the donor search. He said he will participate in a UCSF clinical trial next — an experimental chemotherapy pill, still unapproved by the FDA.

One of the hardest parts is seeing his mother cry, he said.

"The only way I can make her stop crying about it and being emotional about it, is to beat it," Manansala said. "I try not to let that bother me so much, or cloud my judgment, because I am so focused on beating this."

Working with the Asian American Donor Program, an Alameda-based chapter of the national bone marrow registry, Manansala's friends and family have organized more than 100 drives.

Finding a match is more likely within the patient's ethnicity, and as a Filipino, Manansala faces a disadvantage, said Ruby Law, the Asian American Donor Program's recruitment director.

Only 0.5 percent of the nation's 11 million registrants are Filipino, according to Be The Match, the national registry. Whites make up 65 percent of registrants.

Asians needing transplants face a huge disparity, said Winnie Nguyen, a former donor program intern and a UCSC sophomore. Along with her fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, Nguyen organized a UCSC bone marrow drive in April that garnered 160 registrants.

"You really can save a life and I guess it's hard for people to realize that," said Nguyen.

To register, volunteers submit health history and a cheek swab. If a match is found, potential donors are contacted, sometimes years after registering.

San Francisco resident Vincent Pan became a donor in May 2012, about six years after registering. He said he was in the hospital for a day, and had a sore hip for a few days after.

"I think it just sounds so much scarier than it actually is," Pan said. "When I've talked with people about it, they just have this image of spinal taps or something but it really isn't that."

A year later, he met the recipient — a 12-year-old Bay Area girl, he said.

"It really was very, very limited discomfort and the return, the benefits for patients are huge," Pan said. "You know, we're really all part of one community. If I help someone now, someone else can help me later."

To register: Visit www.aadp.org to view upcoming drives or request a cheek swab mailed to your home.  Donors must be 18 to 44 years old and be in good health.
