
1. A liquid market that allows them to get an "earn out" from their ventures after an appropriate amount of effort and results.

2. Availability of capital to get started.

3. Availability of resources to apply the capital against.

4. Size and availability of market.

5. Lifestyle.

3. Language -- non-native English speakers find that they need to be eloquent to secure the best funding results.

You might think the early stage capital point is a non-issue, given how much venture capital is applied just in Silicon Valley alone (approx. $8.3bn in 2013), but the pressure of competition coupled with the fact that most venture capital goes into already established and "ramping" companies, means that it is just as tough for start-ups in the valley to get early-stage funding as it is in other countries.

Actually, the conclusion we drew at the end of the conference is that in the context of money, market, and visas, Japan actually compares quite favorably with the U.S.

OK, no one beats Silicon Valley for the shear amount of capital available at all stages of development. There are angels, incubators, and accelerators for the early-stage businesses, then early-stage VCs (Series A rounds) for those with a product and initial market traction, and mezzanine investors (Series B, C) for later-stage companies. Interesting to see a lot of Japanese corporate capital being applied alongside the mezzanine investors in the USA, largely because this gives them exposure to new technologies at low risk, and of course they are hoping that companies at this funding stage are expanding abroad, providing them with an opportunity to tie up for the Japanese market.

Japan's big negative is its lack of early-stage capital. While we are seeing a boom in incubators and accelerators, there are still very few angel investors. This means that because accelerators are short-term and very sparing in their investments, early-stage companies are constricted in the amount of capital they can raise during the product/service development phase and therefore the products/services they can produce are seldom very advanced compared with start-ups overseas.

We see this funding gap as an area the Japanese government can fill to great effect and we hope that they do so. You can see that there is already an awareness of the need for early-stage capital, from the formation of the US$600m Cool Japan fund. Unfortunately that particular fund has decided to position itself more at the advanced Series A level (minimum investment amount of JPY150MM), and so an earlier stage government fund is needed. We suppose that the ready availability of bank and government guaranteed debt does cover the gap partially, so it's not all bad news.

Indeed, on the positive side, once a start-up does start to earn revenues, the Japanese funding environment is quite rich, although slow to move. Unlike the USA, Japan has many corporations willing to make early-stage strategic capital investments as a means of building up the investee to collaborate with their own businesses. Such companies are generally very hands off, but do expect that their investment will translate into business, so the foreign investor needs to adjust his/her business plan to accommodate them and their needs.

With a market of 127m people and net household assets (excludes housing loans and consumer finance) of about JPY1,193trn, 55% of which is in cash, the Japanese consumer is still highly attractive. We hear a lot about the greying of society and how this is restricting the flow of consumer spending because the elderly are a lot more conservative. While this is true, at the same time the aging population is creating a whole new range of services and products that entrepreneurs can bring to the market quicker than the big boys do. Consider recent developments in the travel, food, supplements, home products, sectors.

The other attractive point about Japan is its proximity and involvement in the Asian region in general. Both from a physical travel point of view and from the ability to mesh with existing Japanese initiatives in the region, there is rich opportunity for the foreign entrepreneur. For example, although foreign owned, since the company would be Japanese in registration, it can apply to get involved in Japanese government funded Asia-based projects.

Of all the first world countries, we believe that Japan has one of the easiest immigration regimes for foreign entrepreneurs who want to be resident in the country. An Investor visa only requires a commitment of US$50,000, and doesn't require an investment in people (minimum of 2 nationals) or office until AFTER the 3-year visa is issued. In this regard, we see little or no impediment to a foreign investor thinking of setting up here. Curious, then, that the Japanese government has identified visas as an item to be further deregulated.

Reports coming from the various advisory panels include an "entrepreneur visa" which even further relaxes requirements for companies setting up the new Special Economic Zones (SEZ), slated for Tokyo, Osaka (medical focus), and Fukuoka. This could mean that even people with a basic high school education could conceivably be allowed entry into Japan, so long as they agree to set up a business. No word yet on just what the actual requirements will be, but they will surely be a lot easier than the minimum for equivalent U.S. EB-5 Immigrant visas, which require hiring 10 people and an investment of between US$500,000 and US$1,000,000.
