
Mercedes-Benz India announced Friday that it has opened its first AMG Performance Center in South India.

The facility is located at Sundaram Motors in Bangalore, according to The Times of India . The company has also released the ML 63 AMG for the Indian market.

"This way, Mercedes-AMG aims to offer a more personalized service to its customers and further bolster its power luxury SUV product portfolio in India," the German automaker said.

Mercedes designed the performance center to offer a Mercedes-AMG product experience, along with commitment and service in customer-company relations.

"This focus on developing an even closer relationship with customers extends a very special brand experience," the company said. "The AMG Performance Center is characterized by a consistently applied and unique AMG brand identity."

A private lounge, exclusive to AMG owners, will be featured in the facility. The lounge offers AMG customers a variety of lifestyle events, such as driver training courses, and will allow AMG drivers and experts to share their opinions, experiences and techniques.

"The AMG Performance Center in Bengaluru will serve as the perfect place for performance car enthusiasts to experience and discover the right AMG car, concept and accessories for a perfect driving experience," said Mario Spitzner, director branding & marketing at Mercedes-AMG GmbH. "We believe India is ready for a performance oriented driving experience and we are delighted to bring these closer to our customers in India."

The automaker is looking to open another center in India this month, Overdrive reported.

Eberhard Kern, managing director and CEO of Mercedes-Benz India, also expressed his confidence in the new center, The Times of India reported.

"It's an exciting time here at Mercedes-Benz India and our success once again reiterates that, our strategy to focus on top of the pyramid is paying off," Kern said. "We are on the right track and we will continue to focus on delivering our brand promise."

Kern added that the company will focus on expanding the Mercedes-AMG brand in Bangalore, Delhi and Mumbai and that the new center is the AMG network's fastest rollout to date.

"The AMG Performance Center in Bangalore will serve as a nodal point for the customers and performance driving enthusiasts in South India," he said.

You have already subscribed. Thank you.
