
North Dakota dairy promoters say the state is bursting with opportunity for farmers.

After the number of dairy farms in the state dropped below 100 last month, the North Dakota Dairy Coalition is starting a campaign to restore the state’s dairy industry.

The coalition, along with the North Dakota Department of Agriculture, the Midwest Dairy Association and other crop commodity groups are partnering to diversify existing dairy farming operations and attract more dairy farmers to the state.

“When you’re down to less than 100 herds in the state, you have to go back to the basics,” said Amber Boeshans, North Dakota Dairy Coalition executive director.

She said the coalition hopes to do that by starting farms from scratch with new producers.

Boeshans said the state has all the raw materials for a dairy comeback. She said the state boasts a diverse number of feeds. Many producers in other states have told her they get their hay and dried distillers grains, like the corn byproducts left over from the ethanol making process, from North Dakota.

“We have so much going for us,” she said.

Distance to processing plants, a shortage of truckers, the need to pay higher wages to attract workers and aging farmers have contributed to dairy’s decline in North Dakota, Boeshans said.

In order to maintain the dairy farmers the state has and bring new ones in, Boeshans said the coalition is creating an action plan in order to establish the necessary network to make them successful.

“We have all (the) right people to get this done,” she said.

Corn, ethanol and soybean producers are on board to help with the restoration of dairy, because they stand to benefit from gaining a larger local market for their feed products. With more cows nearby, producers could save on shipping costs, Boeshans said.

“You’re going to get a higher price putting your corn through a cow than shipping to town,” she said.

Those same crop producers also could benefit from dairy farm manure as a natural fertilizer to help them get away from the use of liquid chemical fertilizers, Boeshans added.

“Rebuilding of our dairy industry will give crop and forage producers more local marketing avenues, as well as an opportunity to explore the possibilities of dairy farming themselves,” Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring said in a statement.

Boeshans said the coalition is starting its recruitment efforts by presenting at agriculture expos and farm shows. She hopes to have a survey of existing producers from the North Dakota State University Extension Service by the first of the year.

North Dakota has three dairy processing plants, including Land O’Lakes in Bismarck, largely dependent on locally produced milk.

Copyright 2014 Bismarck Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
