
The Lodge at Chaa Creek applauds the recent unanimous  confirmation of retired California Supreme Court judge Carlos R. Moreno as ambassador to Belize as a plus for the nation’s growing ecotourism industry.

US citizens make up a large portion of visitors to Belize, and there is a large expat and growing retirement community in Belize, as well as thousands of Belizeans residing in the US.

The Lodge at Chaa Creek reports that the recent unanimous  confirmation of retired California Supreme Court judge Carlos R. Moreno as ambassador to Belize is expected to further strengthen ties between the two countries and indicates that the Obama administration “takes Belize seriously”.

The US Congress unanimously confirmed Mr Moreno’s appointment on May 14 2014.

Lucy Fleming, co-founding owner and GM of Chaa Creek, a major Belizean eco-resort, said the appointment affects the people of both countries as well as Belize’s growing eco-tourism industry, which attracts many visitors from the US.

“Those of us in the tourism industry watch anything that impacts on Belize’s relationship with the US very closely. US citizens make up a large portion of visitors to Belize, and there is a large expat and growing retirement community in Belize, as well as thousands of Belizeans residing in the US."

“The US has been a good friend to Belize, with a history of goodwill initiatives such as the current New Horizons program, which has US military personnel providing medical assistance in Belizean villages."

“So to see someone with Mr Moreno’s track record and personal history appointed as ambassador is good news indeed, and shows that the US takes the relationship with Belize seriously,” Ms Fleming said.

According to Fox News , the former California Supreme Court justice “who has been a champion of civil rights,” has been confirmed unanimously by the Senate as the United States ambassador to Belize.

Prior to serving on California’s highest court, Mr Moreno had been appointed to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California by then President Bill Clinton. He has also served in California on the Los Angeles Superior Court, and the Compton Municipal Court.

Ms Fleming said that in addition to his legal credentials, Mr Moreno’s personal history makes him a good choice for bi-lingual Belize, where English is the official language and there is a large Spanish speaking populace. She pointed out that Mr Moreno is the son of a Mexican immigrant mother and grew up in a home where Spanish was the first language and where no family member had an education beyond high school.

Mr Moreno finished high school and graduated from Yale University in 1970. He then graduated from Stanford law school in 1975 and went on to become Deputy City Attorney for the City of Los Angeles.

The Washington Post reported that during the confirmation hearings, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) asked Justice Moreno if he had ever been to Belize.

Ms Fleming said “I don’t think we could ask for better qualities in an ambassador. Ambassador-designate Moreno strikes us as a man who understands different cultures and knows what it’s like to aspire and then be successful, is bilingual and has an interest in Maya history and Belize.

A date for Justice Moreno’s presentation of his credentials to the Governor General at Belize House in Belmopan has yet to be announced.

The Lodge at Chaa Creek is an award winning eco resort set within a 365 acre private nature reserve in Belize.
