
Dr. Kweku Oteng, Executive Chairman of the Angel Group of Companies, has been adjudged the Education Services Entrepreneur of the Year 2013.

The award was given to him at the 4th UT Bank Ghana Entrepreneur Awards 2013 held in Accra on April 25, 2014, for his contribution to economic growth and job creation in Ghana.

The programme, organized by Entrepreneur Foundation of Ghana (EFG), was on the theme: ‘The role of Public Private Partnership (PPP) in National Development’.

Dr. Oteng was among 30 entrepreneurs in various fields of business who were honoured with plaques and citations at the awards ceremony.

The key objectives of the award were to recognize and reward the best entrepreneurs in the Ghanaian community for their contribution to supporting economic growth and job creation in Ghana.

Dr. Oteng, who owns Angel Educational Complex, from a humble beginning as a carpenter, rose by dint of hard work and dedication to become one of the most affluent persons in the country, owning a chain of businesses including popular herbal medicine, and a transport company among others.

His companies include Angel Herbal Products Industry Ltd, Angel Educational Complex Ltd, Angel Broadcasting Services Ltd, Angel Transport and Trading Ltd, and Angel Estate and Construction Ltd.

Besides providing employment to a large number of people, Dr. Oteng, a native of Toase in the Ashanti Region, is also noted for his passion for extending a helping hand to the poor and the needy in society.

Married to Mrs. Joyce Yeboah Oteng and blessed with four children, the Angel Group of Companies’ boss is known for his continual help to orphanages in the Ashanti Region, notably the Kumasi Children’s Home.

Dr. Oteng is also known for his commitment to education in the country.

He had over the years sponsored a sizeable number of brilliant but needy students in the region to climb to the top of the academic ladder.

The Angel Group boss received several top notch awards for his contribution to business development and society, one of which was the ‘Meritorious Award’ which he received in 2009 during the 10th anniversary of the enstoolment of Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, the Asantehene.

He received the gold award of the Ashanti Business Leaders Excellence Awards which is organized under the auspices of the Manhyia Palace, on four occasions, in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2010, among other awards.

An Honorary Doctor of Social Service and Development degree was conferred on him on December 22, 2013.
