
BELIZE CITY, Belize - The principal at the Sadie Vernon Technical High School in Belize City, Belize, said school administrators should strive to leave their schools better than when they first arrived.

Laura Middleton will leave the high school improved during her tenure there with the help of  New Horizons Belize 2014, an annual exercise that provides Belize Defence Force and U.S. military engineers the opportunity to train to deploy while also perfecting their crafts in civil engineering.

The military engineers are constructing a new addition for the school.

"Receiving a new building like this speaks of the vision for improvement in a school," said Middleton, who has been the principal at Sadie Vernon since 2006. "A principal should never be the leader of an institution that is the same as when they arrived."

Sadie Vernon will definitely not be the same as when she arrived, as the 3,125 square foot-facility is nearing completion. The addition will include three classrooms, one science laboratory, two administrative offices and two restrooms.

"We started working April 3, and everything is going really well. We have a really good team of true professionals dedicated to learning new things, and we also have some experienced craft leads taking the time to teach us," said U.S. Air Force Master Sgt. Vince DiLoreto, project manager at the construction site. It's been a lot of hard work. There are a lot of moving parts and a lot to keep track of.

"We're on par with the rest of the (New Horizons) projects," he added. "We're ahead of our scheduled timeline by almost two weeks."

Final steps for the school addition include finishing parging, completing the roof and ceiling, installing the electricity and plumbing, and pouring the sidewalks and ramp.

"I wanted to ensure we built a school with an idea and with a plan. When I sent the proposal out, I had the idea that this would be inclusive for all high school students and that's why the ramp is important," said Middleton. "I wanted this building to be accessible by everyone."

The classrooms will be important to provide separate areas for students of different learning levels.

"This is really going to benefit our school. Just having more space is beneficial," said the principal. "It's very important when you enroll students below the levels they should be that you be consistent, and students at varying levels having their own space can create confidence within themselves to learn faster."

Having a new facility may also entice more students to enroll.

"Just the newness of it will hopefully bring in students," she said. "Our doors are open."

This work, Principal: Schools should always strive for improvement, building helps, by TSgt Kali Gradishar , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
