
One such draft regulation refers to the possibility of permitting mining companies to do initial public offerings (IPOs) on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX).

However, it is still hard to claim that a mine will be profitable within six years unless it is proved that a certain annual production rate and sales can be maintained. In other words, mining companies have to be in the production phase for a while to do that.

The latest news mentioned that the IDX would allow pre-producing mining companies with minerals deposit data, feasibility study documents and a business plan to go for an IPO. This is done to anticipate mining companies, which are ready to advance to the production phase, going overseas for IPOs.

Mining shares always look exotic in investors’ eyes and successful capital raising through an IPO will provide mining companies some funds for project development, including for covering procurement and construction costs.

Investors are also facing other risks. Mining shares can go like a rollercoaster as explained by Frank Holmes in his article titled: “Valuation gap makes gold miners attractive but all miners aren’t created equal”.

His observation reveals that the share price of a mining company increases when the discovery of a mineral deposit is made and until the “size” of the deposit is estimated — the condition where the share price is referred to as “P”.

study predicts).

This is when the sweet turns sour and the share price tends to decrease, reaching the level referred to as “P*”. It will stay there until all issues are addresed, solved and the project is ready for the next step, by which time the share price will start climbing again.

For the government, if Law No. 4/2009 on mining is retained as the “codex” that guides all aspects in the mining business, it is important to make rules that are relevant to the IPO not in contradiction with that law and its derivatives. In reality, it is much easier said than done.

The above paragraph, with other regulations that cannot be mentioned one by one here, is clearly hinting how complex administration and monitoring can be in each IPO case, including the critical role of the “watchdog” appointed later.

The writer, who is pursuing his PhD in extractive metallurgy at Curtin University, Australia, is a freelance process engineer for several mining companies in Indonesia.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
