
Former Today editor Ceri Thomas is to take charge of BBC1 's Panorama as its current editor Tom Giles oversees an overhaul of BBC current affairs amid warnings from its news chief James Harding over falling ratings.

Giles has been tasked with coming up with a blueprint for the future of BBC current affairs before taking on a new senior role in the autumn.

The BBC's director of news and current affairs James Harding issued a warning to staff that its current affairs coverage had to change in the face of declining audiences and the changing digital environment.

"We all recognise, I think, that current affairs is at a crossroads," said Harding in an email to BBC staff.

"Traditional TV audiences have been falling; while new forms are springing up in online video and online digital current affairs.

"Film-making is changing, storytelling is changing: things are on the move. The BBC is trying to adapt but we're doing it piecemeal and I believe we need to act."

Thomas's role will be filled by his deputy, former Channel 4 News editor Jim Gray.

Channel 4 took all four nominations for the current affairs prize at last night's Bafta TV awards, won by Olly Lambert's acclaimed Dispatches investigation, Syria: Across the Lines.

"It is my belief that Tom, given his unique range of experience in journalism and film-making, is the best person to devise a blueprint to shape what we do in current affairs for a long time to come."

Giles will step down from Panorama in June with Thomas taking charge until a permanent appointment is made following the conclusion of Giles's review, which will encompass TV, radio and online.

Giles said: "It's been an absolute privilege to head one of the country's greatest current affairs brands.

"After four exhilarating, rewarding years at Panorama – leading such a fantastically-talented and dedicated team of journalists and film-makers – I'm excited to be given the chance to move up and shape the future of current affairs at the BBC and then to return to ensure that we rise to all the challenges we face – there's no shortage of them – so we can continue to deliver the very best films, programmes and content around."

Harding described Giles as an "exceptional editor of Panorama".

"In the short time since I've been at the BBC, the Military Reaction Force in Northern Ireland film and Saving Syria's Children, among others, have demonstrated the great quality of its productions," said Harding.

"He and the Panorama team can also point to the programme's track record on some really big stories: corruption allegations against Fifa officials and Winterbourne View obviously – but in the past few weeks we've seen its massive impact in the powerful film on elderly care and in Patrick Mercer's resignation as MP after its cash for questions investigation."

Harding added: "Ceri's experience as a brilliant editor of the Today programme – his inquisitive nature, intellectual rigour and journalistic steel – will be invaluable. I am very grateful to him for taking charge of Panorama over the coming months."

• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook .

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
