
I like the pace of technology, both in finance and in health care, which I occasionally stray into. I have written for Securities Industry News, Risk, Institutional Investor and Alpha. For ten years I edited Windows in Financial Services, covering Microsoft technology in finance, and I continue to write for Banking Technology and Trading Places, both in London.

Scivantage Investor™ ODS (Operational Data Store) provides investors with the real-time account data that typically resides in the back office without the cost and latency of APIs to the back office..

Scivantage provides an investment platform that banks and brokerage firms can use to provide white-labeled brokerage services — including automated account opening, advanced trade order processing, electronic money movement and comprehensive cost basis reporting on the Web and through iOS and Android phones and tablets.

Banks want to offer brokerage services to fend off the brokers, like Schwab and E*Trade, who are competing with them for banking accounts, said Psaltos.

“Banks have been forced to react and we have focused on that particular market. They are trying to create a unified wealth management segment, with a single set of user credentials, that is integrated with the bank.” The platform offers visualization tools graphics and data enrichment in an environment that banks can customize to look like the rest of their brand, he added.

Some firms want more than one brand, or more than one interface, to appeal to different demographics. One view might be highly visualized and another more numeric, usually with the option to switch from one to the other. A bank may offer new users a quick tour of its investment area and invite users to choose the view they prefer.

In contrast to design practices just a few yeas ago, consumer-facing firms are putting a lot of effort into the user interface. Psaltos said that Scivantage has user experience designers on staff, people who understand the psychology and sociology of user-centered design. They have interviewed users, including one who manages his portfolio on Excel because it allows him to pull data from multiple sources, so that is a feature Scivantage offers.

The platform has been multi-channel for several years but recently added mobile which not only diverts traffic from the Web but, because it is easy to use and accepts push, it provides more engagement with customers.

Most of its implementations are cloud-based, either a dedicated cloud or a public cloud, which more and more customers are accepting.
