
In a bid to pacify the protesting employees of District Municipal Corporations (DMCs), the Sindh finance department has pledged to increase the DMCs' share of Octrai Zilla Tax (OZT) by 20 percent for timely payment of salaries, it was learnt on Monday.

Following the strike of the DMC workers due to non-payment of salaries, a high-level meeting was held here to discuss the emerging situation after the municipal employees announced to continue the strike for an indefinite period. The meeting, which was attended by Sindh Secretary for Local Bodies, Administrator KMC, District Administrators and the Finance Secretary, decided to increase the OZT share of DMCs by 20 percent to meet the financial needs of the municipal corporations.

It was also decided that the share of property tax to DMCs would be handled directly instead of distribution through the KMC. Insiders told Business Recorder that in this regard the Sindh Finance Department had moved a summery to the Sindh Law Department, after which it would be sent to the Sindh Chief Minister for approval.

Sources said that the property tax share of Rs 320 million for the second quarter of the financial year 2013-2014 could not be released, which compounded the financial problems of the civic administrations. "Sindh government collects property tax through Sindh Excise and Taxation (E&T) Department and hands it over to KMC after deduction of 10 percent service charges. The KMC also deducts 40 percent from the amount under different heads, eventually DMCs receive meagre 50 percent of the total collection, which is not sufficient to meet their expenditures," a DMC official said.

The sources said that around 5,000 employees of the DMC south had been deprived of their salaries for the last three months due to what they said acute shortage of funds. "The Sindh government always use dilly-delaying tactics to release funds to the DMCs," a source inside the KMC's machinery pool department said. "DMC south receives Rs 100 million under the head of OZT every month and if the decision is implemented, it will be receiving Rs 120 million from the Sindh government," an official told this correspondent. Sources said that due to inordinate delay in releasing funds to DMCs, thousands of pensioners were still unpaid. They said that the departments of DMCs associated with essential services were running out of fuel, which might affect their operations to tackle the eventualities during monsoon.
