
The Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz's Sindh legislators on Monday threatened its central leadership of forging an 'independent bloc' in the Sindh provincial legislature if their demands were not met within eight days. "We [lawmakers] have set an eight-day ultimatum to the party's central leadership to see our demands," said provincial parliamentary leader of PML-N Irfanullah Khan Marwat at the Sindh Assembly.

He felt the PML-N central leadership has left all the lawmakers elected in Sindh to the provincial legislature or the National Assembly 'high and dry' since his party took reins of power after May 11, 2013, general elections. "If our problems are not attended by the central party leadership then all of us will seek independent seats in the Sindh Assembly," relinquishing party affiliation in protest, he said, adding that his party continued to ignore the provincial representatives who had elected without the party's support.

"If we are not Kashmiris it is not our fault," he pointed out at his party's key cabinet members in the federal government, saying the lawmakers continued to acquaint his party with the issues they were facing for the last one year but failed to get attention for the resolution of their demands.

"Our leadership never showed interest on our demands even did not provide us with an opportunity to meet with it," he said, adding that the party's attitude towards the lawmakers is 'sad'. It seems the federal government has handed over the province to the PPP as it has no interest in the affairs of Sindh, he observed, saying "neither have we sought governorship nor ministries, our demands is for urgent solution to our problems".

Marwat said his colleagues and he had a just stance to justify the ultimatum. "We have informed the PML-N leadership about our decision," he said. "It seems that he [Nawaz Sharif] has learnt nothing from past crises," he said, claiming that "Hakim Baloch has already resigned as state minister in protest but none in the federal government took notice of it".
