
The Massachusetts state pension fund has hired Andre Clapp, an international stock manager from the Boston investment firm Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co.

Clapp has been running $700 million in foreign stocks at GMO. In his 16 years at the firm, he studied European and emerging markets and developed theories on risk management.

Before that, Clapp was a scientist. He holds a bachelor’s degree in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a doctorate in physics from the University of California Berkeley.

Clapp, 51, is the latest private sector hire for the $58 billion pension fund for public workers, run by executive director Michael Trotsky, a former hedge fund manager. The state fund has often struggled to fill vacancies because investment firms pay dramatically more. Clapp will earn $160,000 a year.

The fund’s overseer, Pension Reserves Investment Management, recently was named public pension plan of the year by Institutional Investor, a trade publication. The fund generated a 15.2 percent investment return last year but also is working to cut costs, pledging to save $100 million a year, or one third of its annual expenses.

Clapp will start his new job June 2.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
