
NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday hinted at lifting a court-imposed embargo on bank accounts and assets to permit Sahara to raise Rs 5,000 crore in cash and another Rs 5,000 crore by way of a bank guarantee to secure the release of chairman Subroto Roy, but rejected a plea to order his immediate release before any payments.

A new bench comprising Justices TS Thakur and AK Sikri, which has shut the door firmly on a plea by Sahara to first release Roy to help raise the sum ofRs 10,000 crore.

Roy has been imprisoned since March 4, 2014 after Sahara failed to pay Rs 24,000 crores to Sebi as directed by the top court in an order passed on August 31, 2012. The bench now hearing the case was constituted after the retirement of Justice KS Radhakrishnan and recusal of Justice JS Khehar from the case.

On Monday Sahara lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi sought Roy's release and assured the top court that the amount would be deposited within 60 days of his release, but the court wouldn't hear any of it.

"No one is willing to buy if I am in jail," Singhvi said. "I can't stay inside endlessly till I produce the amount," he said, seeking a 60-day window for Roy to raise the money. "I will go back to jail if I can't pay in 60 days."

"That is not the spirit of the court order," Justice Thakur said rejecting his proposal, referring to the earlier bench's order that Roy would have to pay Rs 10,000 crore before he could be released.

The new bench also rejected a plea for placing Roy under house arrest in either Lucknow or Mumbai, till that amount was paid.

"This stalemate helps no one, definitely not the depositor. Make a finite proposal which is logically acceptable," the bench said, before listing the issue again for deliberations next week. Roy is stuck in Tihar jail till then.

During court proceedings Sahara offered to pay Rs 3,000 crore lying in its accounts within five to seven days of lifting of the freeze on its accounts. It also offered to sell some Amby valley properties, a Sahara real estate project, to raise the remaining Rs 2,000 crore and secure aRs 5,000 crore bank guarantee.

But the bench wanted Sahara to sell only one property for the time being to raise Rs 2000 crore by way of cash to add to the Rs 3000 crore held in its accounts.

The top court also wanted Sahara to secure the Rs 5000 crore bank guarantee by mortgaging its properties, instead of selling it outright.

The bench questioned the valuation of the assets listed by Sahara as part of its efforts to raise the Rs 10,000 crore. "This will be in a way a distress sale," the bench observed, hinting that the properties may not fetch the expected values. "How do you propose then to raise the balance (of the Rs 37,000 crore odd dues)?"

Sahara then claimed that this list of 70 properties submitted to the top court was not "exhaustive".

The bench also sought to know in detail from the company the mode of disposal. "Will it be auction or by way of negotiations? What will be the reserve price?"

"Auction will take time," Dhavan said. He offered to have an officer from Sebi associated with the process, but the bench deferred passing any orders for a week to allow Sahara to come up with a clearer roadmap for disposing of the properties.

Sahara had offered to sell Amby Valley properties in Pune, Ahmedabad and Bahraich to raise Rs 11,000 crore odd. "We have letters of intent for this," senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the two other jailed directors, said.

The bench sought details of these letters of intent at the next date of hearing. The top court had on August 31, 2012, asked two Sahara companies to pay a sum ofRs 24,000 odd crores to market regulator Sebi so that it could return this amount to investors in two schemes.

Sahara has so far only paidRs 5206 cr to Sebi. The total dues along with interest now amounts to Rs 37,000 crore as per a Sebi estimate.

Angry over the company dragging its feet over the payments, the earlier bench had remanded Roy to Tihar jail.
