
May 19, 2014, 3 p.m.

WHEN tree trimming took place in a busy main thoroughfare recently, it resulted in some very dissatisfied shop keepers.

Roadside pruning has angered some local business owners.

WHEN tree trimming took place in a busy main thoroughfare recently, it resulted in some very dissatisfied shop keepers.

With traffic conditions reduced to one lane on the South Western Highway in Boyanup, plus the addition of a stop sign and build up of vehicles, it meant the parking spots outside the bakery and take away food shop could not be utilised.

Pedr Finn said it had been a complete waste of time opening his shop that day because his freshly prepared food had gone to waste.

"I am upset because there was absolutely no warning that the road would be closed," he said.

"As a business owner I believe I have the right to be told in advance if part of the main road is to be closed."

Mr Finn said he had phoned the Shire of Capel, only to be told the Department of Main Roads was in charge of the project.

During his subsequent call to Main Roads he was told the project had been organised by the Shire of Capel.

"Here we have a situation of chaos for businesses trying to make a living," Mr Finn said.

"Every day of the week there are hundreds of trucks and cars passing through the town and a good percentage pull up outside the three take away food shops in this town - so it makes sense to be told in advance that there are going to be disruptions."

A similar situation existed in the Boyanup town site in May 2010 when road repairs and resurfacing took place.

On that occasion the complete length of the main street had been reduced to one lane, thereby blocking off any parking facilities or stopping places.

Capel Shire Director of Engineering Wayne Butler said it was necessary to put into practice safety procedures, in line with Occupational Health and Safety legislation in WA.

"We must ensure the safety of our staff at all times and when they are working under power lines it means closing one lane of traffic," he said.

"We must also work in compliance with Western Power."

Mr Butler said in the majority cases people were notified well in advance of any pending activities carried out by the Shire, but on this occasion it would appear to have been an oversight.

He gave an assurance that in future the Shire would notify businesses that may be inconvenienced.
