
"Just 41 per cent of New Zealand small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs) had a business website, up from 34 per cent in March last year, a survey by accounting software business MYOB shows."

These figures remind me that thousands of businesses have a website that they use to promote their products and services.

And in this column I want to suggest one simple change that could make your website work a lot better as a marketing tool.

An Information Magnet is simply information that would be helpful to a potential client for your business.

Andy Carruthers works as a business consultant with accountancy practice Crowe Horwath (NZ) Limited.

Andy offers a short 6 page booklet that can help a business owner use new technology to save an extra 60 minutes a day.

You enter your name and email address and then receive the booklet.

You also get access to three short and helpful videos that go into the same topic in more detail.

I've read the booklet and it explains a number of apps and some simple productivity tips that work well to save a business person serious time each week.

So the booklet is worth reading for business people.

interested in making their business more productive and profitable.

Andy can now start to communicate with this list and add value to them by providing helpful information.

He can mention some of the consulting services that he offers and there is a good chance that some of the people on his list will find these services to be useful for their business.

So what an info magnet does is give visitors to your website a reason to make contact and give you their name and email address.

There are three groups of potential clients who will visit your website.

Potential clients who are interested in buying your type of product or service in the next 3-12 months.

Potential clients who have an interest in buying your type of product or service in the next 1-2 years.

Now if you offer a helpful info magnet that is related to what you sell you will usually get potential clients from all three groups to order it.

You can then start communicating with these people; you can add value and position your firm as an expert in your field and so on.

This creates an excellent relationship with these people.

And dramatically increases the chances of them choosing to do business with your firm at the appropriate time they need what you offer.

If you don't have a helpful info magnet on your website here are two options you might want to take.

Option 1: Create your own info magnet and offer it on your website.

Make sure your info magnet is helpful to potential clients and gives them valuable information.

Option 2: Get someone else to create an info magnet for you.

If you would like some suggestions on where to go to create an effective info magnet just contact me using either of the email links in this Herald column.

Tell me the type of business you have and the main types of new clients you would like to attract with an info magnet.

I'll give you a couple of suggestions on creating an info magnet that should be helpful.

Whether you create it yourself or get someone to help you, offering a helpful info magnet is a proven way to make many websites work better.

"Being memorable equals getting picked."

We aim to have healthy debate. But we won't publish comments that abuse others. View commenting guidelines.

Please check your inbox and click the verification link to complete the registration. Once you login, you can post further comments and view comments made in your profile.

Thank you for sharing your views. Your comment has been received.
