
Russia could reduce its stake in oil producer Rosneft this year, bringing forward a privatization that had been scheduled for 2016, Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said Saturday.

Vedomosti reported last week, citing two government sources, that Russia could sell 19.5 percent of Rosneft as early as this autumn or in 2015.

“Nothing prevents us from completing this deal in the current year, the market conditions are not bad and technically we are fully prepared,” Ulyukayev said, RIA Novosti reported.

Ulyukayev, taking part in an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC, trade ministers meeting in the Chinese city of Qingdao, said that both Russian and foreign investors had expressed interest, RIA Novosti reported.

The state owns 69.5 percent of Rosneft, the world’s largest listed oil company by production, but it eventually plans to reduce its shareholding to 50 percent plus one share.

Russia’s stock market has fallen sharply in recent months as a result of the East-West standoff over Ukraine, reducing the price that Russia could receive by selling state companies.

However, there may have been a preliminary agreement with strategic investors from Asia, analysts cited by Vedomosti said.

British oil major BP is the second-biggest Rosneft shareholder with a 19.75 percent stake.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
