
SEJONG, May 19 (Yonhap) -- South Korea will lower entry barriers to its free economic zones (FEZs) and remove regulations on profit reinvestment, the trade ministry said Monday.

Following a special meeting over the weekend, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said firms will be allowed to set up business in South Korea's FEZs by entering into a contract with the zone operators. Under the current regulation, the firms must have prior approval from the ministry.

In all, the government will eliminate 17 of the existing 58 regulations and reform 11 others over the next four years, the ministry said.

"The meeting sought to review all related regulations from the scratch under the principle that all unnecessary regulations and procedures that hinder the participation of new businesses or place excessive burdens on firms must be removed," it said in a press release.

"The government plans to greatly reduce or improve regulations on the entry and exit of imported supplies to and from FEZs that are proving to be a hindrance to building a regional hub for transit and processing trade," said Kwon Pyung-oh, head of the ministry's trade and investment bureau.

Regulations subject to elimination include one that currently requires firms operating in FEZs to reinvest at least 25 percent of all their profits and give another 25 percent of profits to the local government.

The government plans to remove the reinvestment regulation before the end of next year, though they may still be asked to voluntarily reinvest a certain portion of their profits, the ministry said.

"This seeks to help promote investment by giving priority to new businesses entering FEZs that promise a higher rate of reinvestment," a ministry official said.

The companies will continue to be required to return 25 percent of their profits under the Development Gains Recapturing Act, the official added.

Also to be eliminated is a regulation on free trade areas that requires companies to export a set proportion of their total output or face possible eviction.

"The regulation can often result in a loss of tens of billions of won by companies that build their own production facilities within free trade areas in case they are told to leave the area," Kwon told reporters.

Currently, small and medium-sized firms operating in free trade areas are required to export over 30 percent of their total output. The proportion for large businesses is 50 percent.

Instead of making firms leave when they do not meet the requirement, the government plans to withdraw incentives such as preferential rental fees, according to the ministry official.

South Korea currently operates eight FEZs, along with 13 free trade areas.
