
ExpenseIt®, the new expense app from Concur is set to make expense reporting quicker and easier than ever. Users simply snap a photo of a receipt with their smartphone on the go and ExpenseIt automatically turns the receipt into an expense. It’s a modern, time-saving alternative for the 52 per cent of people who are still using manual or paper-based expense reporting.* Launching in Australia this month, Concur’s new ExpenseIt app is available now for Concur customers to download.

Once a user takes a photo of a receipt from a smartphone, ExpenseIt uses a combination of people and technology to accurately create the expense – and match it with the corresponding expense category and credit card transaction in Concur Expense. ExpenseIt also itemises hotel bills and captures digital receipts.

Since launching in the US at the end of 2013, ExpenseIt has turned more than a quarter of a million receipt images into expense reports for a variety of innovative companies, both small and large. Because employees are capturing expenses on the go, companies get a closer to real-time view into spending.

To make keeping track of expenses even easier, American Express Corporate Cardmembers that use ExpenseIt and Concur Expense can receive synchronised alerts reminding them to snap a photo of their receipt moments after swiping their card. Concur was the first company to integrate American Express’ transaction alerts when the feature became available in the US via ExpenseIt in early 2014. Since then, ExpenseIt has sent more than 25,000 of these reminders to American Express Cardmembers and this is now available for Australian users.

*According to research conducted by Concur in 2013.

The attention to detail and high level of service offered, have made this Emirates flight experience excellent all round.

You may have noticed e-Travel Blackboard has had a make-over? We're under new management and everything’s had a scrub & polish.

To start we've given our name a lift. Introducing ETB News - Global Travel News and Tourism News.

We’ve merged our five international sites into one www.etbnews.com .

We’ve listened to your feedback and now offer tailored newsletter subscriptions. Don’t forget to change your newsletter preferences or subscribe it’s FREE!
