
KATHMANDU: Nepali financial market will see the first acquisition of a financial institution, with Citizens Bank International’s decision to buy Nepal Housing and Merchant Finance Ltd, less than two months after the central bank allowed such purchases.

Citizens Bank International (Citizens)’s Chairman Pabitra Kumar Karki and Nepal Housing Finance Ltd (NHMF)’s Chairman Sonam Lama signed a memorandum of understanding in this regard today.

“The bank will conduct a due diligence audit to assess the value of the finance company and offer the price,” informed Spokesperson for the bank, Ganesh Raj Pokharel.

The finance company, with paid-up capital of Rs 220 million, has capital adequacy of 18 per cent and less than 2.5 per cent as bad loans. The class ‘A’ commercial bank has paid-up capital of Rs 2.1 billion and more than half a billion rupees in its reserve fund.

Although Nepali financial market has already witnessed more than 50 sets of mergers in the past three years, this will be the first acquisition of a financial institution by another one.

The Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) had introduced the long-awaited bylaw on acquisition, paving the way for banks and financial institutions to raise their net worth and expand the size of their balance sheet by taking over similar players in the market, in early April.

As per the bylaw, commercial banks or Class ‘A’ financial institutions, development banks or Class ‘B’ financial institutions, and finance companies or Class ‘C’ financial institutions can acquire one another. As per the bylaw, parties in the acquisition process must first get the approval from their respective general meetings and give authority to their boards of directors to take the matter forward.

Since mergers require two equal partners, many larger financial institutions did not want to merge with smaller ones. Likewise, merger regulation did not address the woes of troubled financial institutions, as though many wanted to acquire them, no healthy ones were willing to partner with them. Such discrepancies in the regulations compelled NRB to bring the Acquisition Bylaws.

“Based on the evaluation of assets and liabilities, institutions can make the acquisition by purchasing shares in cash or by offering stock option,” says the bylaw. “NRB will oversee the entire process and may give suggestions or instructions to ease the process.” Institutions that have completed the takeover process will be given extra time to meet the regulatory requirements on deprived sector lending and investment.
