
G'night London. G'day Australia. Sydney's landmark Opera House is on the itinerary of a four-day UK-Oz round trip. Not much else is.

There's a visit to the Harbour Bridge. Well worth traveling 46 hours in a plane to see.

Passengers will have to drive 12 hours to Melbourne to make their return flight.

Travelers willing to forgo sleep can add an extra trip to the Yarra Valley. Here they can wander about in a daze, staring mutely into their wine glasses.

And because two solid days in a plane and 12 hours of driving is never enough -- you can add an extra road trip along the Great Ocean Road.

Tour operator says its weekend trips from London to Australia are "intense" but "do-able"

(CNN) -- For those with too much money but not enough time or common sense -- here's the perfect travel solution.

A weekend trip to the other side of the planet.

A UK-based tour operator has begun offering whistle-stop sightseeing excursions from London to Australia that depart Friday afternoon and return "just in time for work" on Tuesday morning.

Austravel -- a specialist in Down Under destinations -- says the 33,800-kilometer (21,000 mile), 46-hour round trip is ideal for anyone trying to maximize vacation time.

Tickets starting at $1,840 include airfare, two hotel nights and rental car for three days.

Austravel's Naomi Moreno-Melgar concedes traveling to Australia for a weekend is "extreme" but insists it's "do-able."

"A trip to the land Down Under does not need take up all of your holiday allowance, but with four time zones, three million square miles and 22 million people, it would be nice," she says.

Melbourne at dusk. Or dawn. Travelers won't know the difference.

The itinerary sees passengers depart London on Friday afternoon, arriving in Sydney on Saturday evening.

After a night in a four-star hotel and visits to Sydney's Opera House, Harbour Bridge and tower, they bundle themselves into their rental car and hit the coastal road south.

There's a night and morning in Melbourne, before a return flight that lands in London at 6:40 a.m. on Tuesday.

The world may just have gotten a little smaller.

Also, a little more nuts.

From Myanmar to Mickey Mouse, Stefan Zwanzger, aka The Theme Park Guy, gives his rundown of the best.

Four hundred years after the death of Countess Elizabeth Bathory, her murderous exploits prove a grisly attraction.

Formed by volcanoes and steeped in a rich history of Polynesian culture, Hawaii sounds more like a place in a fantasy novel rather than an American travel oasis.

Despite Kyoto's allure, until this year there's been a glaring absence from the city's travel scene -- a top tier, super-luxury hotel brand.

Why global adventurer Alastair Humphreys now looks for 'microadventures' close to home.

Don't order Corona and don't freak out when you see Jessica Alba without makeup and you might pass for local.

History buff? Hardcore surfer? These South Pacific islands have every traveler covered.

Airlines and airports are going high-tech to reduce your time in line.

Summer isn't over yet. These new hotels are keeping it alive and fresh.

Eight of the top 10 scoring cities in the Economic Intelligence Unit's annual Liveability Survey are in Australia and Canada.

When a man tells me to "trust him," my typical reaction is to run.

Efforts to preserve one of Hong Kong's most storied districts are underway in an old tenement building in Wan Chai.

From Colombia to Canada, this handful of urban centers is leading the two-wheel charge.

Photographer gives Hong Kong skyscrapers a radical new look.

A cage-free shark photographer gets up close and personal with the ocean's most feared predators.
