
Emma Heron Journalist Chinchilla News I am the quintessential city girl who went bush to follow my passion for journalism.  In search of some sunshine and a good story, I left a marketing job in Melbourne and started my new career at Chinchilla News. After experiencing journalism in front of the camera and from behind a radio desk, Chinchilla News is my first foray into print. Equal to my love of writing is my appetite for meeting fascinating people- of which there are plenty in the Surat Basin.

FOR more than four years Wandoan's Bungaban Creek Crossing has been in desperate need of flood repairs and local road users say they have "had a gutful" of waiting.

Community leader Bill Blackley, who was presented with the Regional Citizen of the Year Award on Australia Day, said since the crossing was first damaged in early 2010, promises of repairs had repeatedly been made and broken by the council.

"It's been patched up and smoothed out a little bit but it will still tear the bottom out of a gear box if you cross at any more than 20kmh," he said.

"The road has a hell of a lot of use and had a hell of a hammering by gas company vehicles and yet it just gets ignored."

"Gas companies have even offered to fix it up but the council assured us it was being done as part of flood works in the area."

Helen Hatton, who lives with her husband and three children on the other side of Bungaban Creek, said it came down to a matter of safety.

Mrs Hatton said the crossing was so unreliable locals did not want the school bus travelling across it and instead they dropped their children at the other side of the creek.

"In July last year we were told the project was with council's designers.

"But now we've been told we're just getting a concrete slab and a bit of bitumen.

"We just want something reliable.

"I think it's been put in the 'too hard' basket. It needs to go into the 'it's getting fixed' basket.

"They've had four years to do something. Just give us a good bridge and we'll be happy. We've already waited long enough."

Western Downs Regional Council received a petition from fed-up road users on the issue.

Chinchilla News approached the council for an explanation on May 2, but the council has still not responded.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© The Warwick Newspaper Pty Limited 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
