
While the rest of the world is gearing up for Rio fever, Espirito Brum are set to bring their authentic Brazilian-focused event to the International Dance Festival Birmingham, with interactive dance and music event Rebel Spirit .

Espirito Brum, curated by Professional Incredibles, is Birmingham’s international celebration of art and performance. It has been making a name for itself as the UK’s Brazilian cultural exchange programme since 2011.

Each year since its inception, Espirito Brum has transformed the suburbs of Birmingham, and has staged a series of film premieres, graffiti murals, art installations, and live events in the vibrant areas of Kings Heath, Balsall Heath and Digbeth.

Espirito Brum will host long-standing event Rebel Spirit as part of International Dance Festival Birmingham’s 2014 Paint The Town Red series at cult underground venue PST in Digbeth on May 24.

Rebel Spirit will offer a showcase night featuring Capoeira mestres visiting from Brazil, live hip hop and reggae direct from Rio, traditional couples' dance forró, the best of Birmingham's breakdancers and more.

Espirito Brum Project Manager and Professional Incredibles Co-Director Tessa Burwood said: "Rebel Spirit has always been a celebration to highlight independent music makers, and artists who dedicate their energies to enriching our city's cultural underground.

“It's not every day you can open a dance floor to some of the world's leading capoeira mestres, who are flying in from Brazil to perform with Capoeira Cordão de Ouro at the International Capoeira Festival Birmingham.

“We are also thrilled to have returning artists such as Rio-born reggae and hip hop star Jota III, and Brum's own DJ Destruction Turntablist Champion DJ Feva, who have formed an integral part of our events programme, both here and on tour in Brazil.

Also performing is breakdance initiative Open Circles, who will join forces with Northeastern Brazilian social dance enthusiasts Forró in Brum, and Nottingham School of Samba, featuring pioneering Afro Brazilian choreographer Irineu Nogueira.

The Rebel Spirit event will showcase workshops and performances from leaders in Brazilian dance and music, from 8pm through until 12am. Proceeds from the £5 tickets sales will go back to providing social dance events in Birmingham throughout the summer.

A spokesman said: "The Espirito Brum collective looks forward to celebrating its 4th edition with Rebel Spirit in conjunction with IDFB and The DanceeXchange, which will fall a month ahead of their own festival on June 28th, in conjunction with Muzikstan, Celebrating Sanctuary, Some Cities and Birmingham Promoters, at The Old Print Works, Balsall Heath."

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Fort Dunlop,

Fort Parkway,

Fort Dunlop,

Fort Parkway,

We reach over 784,967* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of Birmingham and the West Midlands.

Over 66% of our visitors, who view over 4m* page impressions every month, are in the desirable ABC1 socio-economic groups.

The Birmingham Mail is part of Trinity Mirror Midlands , offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

A born and bred Brummie, David was appointed editor of the Birmingham Mail in November 2009.

He has over 30 years experience as a journalist in the West Midlands including editorships on the Coventry Telegraph and Sunday Mercury.
