
KOLKATA: CBI began investigation into the Saradha scam on Monday, with a one-on-one with officers of the state-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT).

The Supreme Court had handed the Saradha probe to CBI on May 9. Three days later, when Bengal was voting in the final phase of the Lok Sabha election, CBI was forming a crack team of nine investigators, says record available with TOI. Upendra Kumar Aggarwal, CBI SP-anti corruption branch, has been made supervisory SP in the case. He has been transferred to the Special Crime Branch in Kolkata and will be redesignated as SP-SCB, Kolkata. Sources say he will have the authority to register new FIRs in the Saradha case.

The core CBI team held a meeting with Bidhannagar commissionarate in Salt Lake on Monday to discuss handing over case files. Soon after this, the central team had an internal meeting to decide strategy.

It is significant that CBI has entrusted the probe with Special Crime Branch and not Economic Offences Wing or Bank Security and Fraud unit, keeping in mind the "gravity" of the Saradha scam. The final team will have a mix of officers from all three departments.

The nine member CBI-SIT comprises officers from CBI's Kolkata, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Ranchi and Guwahati units - Rajiv Singh (IG, head of northeast), S B Bagchi (DIG-head of branch, SCB Kolkata), Navajyoti Gogoi (SP-anti-corruption branch, Upendra Kumar Aggarwal, P B Karna (ASP, SCB-Patna), MT Mang (DSP, ACB-Guwahati), S K Tripathi (DSP, BS&F Kolkata), S K Samal (inspector, ACB Bhubaneshwar) and Tathagata Vardan (inspector, ACB Ranchi).

Sources say CBI will decide the exact number of FIRs to be registered once they go through the chargesheets submitted by SIT. All cases will filed at the Special crime branch of Kolkata. The central agency can reinvestigate all Saradha cases, even those in which charges have been framed in court.

"We have been informed that FIR 102 in Bidhannagar North police station is the master FIR. Hence, it is that FIR we are most interested in," a source said. In cases concerning Bengal, Aggarwal will file all his evidence and important documents to Navajyoti Gogoi and all Odisha cases will be submitted to S B Bagchi. CBI bosses have not explained why a DIG was designated for the Odisha cases and an SP for the Bengal cases.

Special director-CBI Anil Kunar Sinha will monitor the probe from time to time and is likely to visit Kolkata. The last five officers of the CBI SIT have been asked to concentrate on the Saradha case alone. A top legal officer from Delhi and a senior bank officer attached with ACB-Patna will assist CBI.

It is not clear if a few state SIT officers, who have investigated the case for a year, will be asked to assist CBI. On Monday, the state SIT denied having received any letter from CBI asking them to hand over documents. "We are yet to hear from CBI," said Bidhannagar DC-DD Arnab Ghosh, who is a key member of the now defunct state SIT.
