
The Lahore High Court (LHC) has issued directives to the Federal Board of Revenue official to decide the question of jurisdiction at first instance through 'speaking order' before further proceedings in the matter of amendment to assessment under section 122 of the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001 for the Tax Year 2013.

It is learnt here on Monday that a taxpayer through Waheed Shahzad Butt, Advocate had challenged the show-cause notice for amendment to assessment proceedings under section 122 of the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001 by the RTO Gujranwala IRS official. Details revealed that case of the IRS official of RTO Gujranwala has initiated amendment regarding assessment proceedings by issuing notice under section 122(5A) of the Ordinance for the Tax Year 2013, however, the taxpayer challenged the proceedings in LHC under writ jurisdiction, wherein it is directed by the LHC that the official will consider the reply of the petitioner to the impugned notice and decide the question of his jurisdiction at the first instance through 'speaking order' before further proceedings in the matter.

When contacted, Waheed Shahzad Butt told BR that in this rare instance of mal-administration of justice, initiation of proceedings under section 122 of the Ordinance is not only un-constitutional, illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory, violative of the norms of justice but also blind exercise of discretionary powers. Inland Revenue Audit Officer (IRAO) has no lawful authority to initiate proceedings under section 122(5A) of the Ordinance due to the sole reason that lawful authority to initiate proceedings rests with Inland Revenue Officer not below the rank of Additional Commissioner Inland Revenue and no other Authority like IRAO can exercise such powers.

Tax lawyer further added that present move by the field formations of FBR specifically RTO Gujranwala is a deliberate attempt to snatch more revenue to fill the budget target gap by hook or crook without realising the fact whether it is within four corners of law and legally permissible or not? The case has been pleaded by Butt on behalf of the Gujranwala based petitioner wherein LHC has granted relief to the taxpayer by issuing categorical directions.

The petitioner states that "no cogent grounds/reasons "definite information' have been given in the said vague notice for amendment of assessment, needless to state that no such power rests with the Respondent to exercise powers under section 122(5A) of the Ordinance. Instead of clarifying the matter of lawful jurisdiction a corrigendum has been issued by the Respondent wherein it has been mentioned that section 122(5A) of the Ordinance has inadvertently been typed. The action of the respondent (IRAO) is in clear violation of provisions of section 210 of the Ordinance hence the void notice issued by the Respondent is without lawful authority and a nullity in the eyes of law. If the law had prescribed a specific method for doing a thing in a specific manner, such provision of law is to be followed in letter and spirit and achieving or attaining the objective of performing or doing a thing in a manner other than provided by law would not be permitted. The power exercised by the Respondent is a rare instance of overstepping the lawful jurisdiction available with IRS authorities, it said.

There is no concept of "unfettered discretion" in the fiscal laws of the land and arbitrary exercise of discretionary powers has to be struck down. Notwithstanding the mal-treatment given to the Petitioner by the Respondents the basic legal requirement to assume lawful jurisdiction to amend the assessment, is miserably absent from the impugned notice. The Respondents intentionally ignored the clear meanings of "definite information" as explained by the Hon'ble superior judiciary.

If the Respondent is permitted to conduct the void proceedings without adhering to any lawful jurisdiction then it will compromise the neutrality of the taxation system. It will also create a statutory anomaly whereby the Respondent has to exercise jurisdiction within four corners of law but the Respondent doing injustice with the Petitioner on his whim. Being a public servant, Respondent cannot exercise an unfettered power without any check or balance.

Every public functionary is bound to obey command of Constitution and nobody should be penalised by inaction of public functionaries because public functionaries are duty-bound to act in accordance with law. Everybody had to work within the command of Constitution and law and should not hesitate to discharge his duties in accordance with law and Constitution otherwise the rule of Jungle would prevail which will not be in the interest of the country and the nation.

That people of Pakistan must be provided justice by all organs of State and everybody has to work honestly, fairly and justly for building national character. Mere reading of contents of notice by IRAO reveals that office of RTO Gujranwala acted beyond its lawful jurisdiction just to harass the taxpayers of the country, the petitioner added.
