
After spring planting, producers should certify their 2014 acreage. Filing an accurate acreage report for all crops and land uses, including failed acreage and prevented planting acreage, can prevent the loss of benefits for a variety of programs.

Acreage reports are required for many Farm Service Agency (FSA) programs. For crops enrolled in programs other than NAP (Noninsured Crop Disaster Program), acreage reports are to be certified by the July 15 deadline on all spring-seeded crops.

Acreage reports on crops covered by NAP are due in the county FSA offices by the earlier of July 15 for spring-seeded crops, or 15 calendar days before the onset of harvest or grazing of the specific crop acreage being reported.

Livestock disaster program enrollment opened on April 15, 2014. These disaster programs are authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill as permanent programs and provide retroactive authority to cover losses that occurred on or after Oct. 1, 2011.

Documentation of the number and kind of livestock that have died, supplemented if possible by photographs or video records of ownership and losses.

Dates of death supported by birth recordings or purchase receipts.

Costs of transporting livestock to safer grounds or to move animals to new pastures.

Feed purchases if supplies or grazing pastures are destroyed.

Crop records, including seed and fertilizer purchases, planting and production records.

Livestock Forage Disaster Program – LFP provides compensation to eligible livestock producers that have suffered grazing losses due to drought on privately owned or cash leased land or fire on federally managed land. Eligible producers must physically be located in a county affected by a qualifying drought during the normal grazing period for the county. Producers who suffered eligible grazing losses should submit a completed CCC-853 and supporting documentation by Jan. 30, 2015.

Livestock Indemnity Program – LIP provides compensation to eligible livestock producers that have suffered livestock death losses in excess of normal mortality due to adverse weather and attacks by animals reintroduced into the wild by the federal government or protected by federal law. Producers who suffered livestock death losses should submit a notice of loss and an application for payment to their local FSA office by Jan. 30, 2015.

Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees and Farm-Raised Fish Program – ELAP provides emergency assistance to eligible producers of livestock, honeybees and farm-raised fish that have losses due to disease, adverse weather, or other conditions, such as blizzards and wildfires. ELAP assistance is provided for losses not covered by LFP and LIP. Producers who suffered eligible livestock, honeybee or farm-raised fish losses during 2012 and 2013 program years must submit a notice of loss and application for payment to their local FSA office by Aug. 1, 2014. For 2014 program year losses, the notice of loss and an application for payment must be submitted by Nov. 1, 2014.

Producers can review the LFP, LIP and ELAP Fact Sheets on the Farm Bill webpage . Producers are encouraged to make an appointment with their local FSA office to apply for these programs. For more information or to make an appointment, contact the Osage County FSA office at 115 W. 17th St., Lyndon, KS 66451, or call 785-828-4631 .

Grace Community Church, Overbrook, 310 E. Eighth St.
