
(Photo : REUTERS/NASA/Handout) SpaceX’s Dragon has returned to Earth on Sunday after making deliveries to the International Space Station.

SpaceX's cargo ship Dragon has splashed down after making a trip to space on Sunday, NBC News reported.

The robotic commercial spaceship was launched on April 18 for a one-month visit to the International Space Station. On Sunday, it was sent back to Earth, bringing with it nearly 2 tons of science experiments and old equipment for NASA .

ISS Commander Astronaut Steven Swanson released Dragon for its journey back to Earth using a big robot arm and sent the craft zooming more than 260 miles or 420 kilometers above the South Pacific.

Five hours after leaving the laboratory, the cargo capsule - complete with three parachutes floating above it - splashed into the Pacific, off Mexico's Baja California coast.

"Very nice to have a vehicle that can take your science, equipment and maybe someday even humans back to Earth," Swanson told Mission Control.

The SpaceX Dragon is the only supply ship that can return items to Earth because other cargo ships burn up when re-entering the Earth's atmosphere, according to another NBC News report. This was the fourth Dragon ship that was able to bring back goods from the space station.

Dragon rocketed to space with nearly 5,000 pounds or 2,200 kilograms of supplies and equipment for the orbiting space station.

NASA has signed a 12-flight, $1.6 billion contract with California-based SpaceX.

SpaceX and Virginia-based Orbital Sciences Corp. are tasked to make station deliveries until 2016. After Dragon, Orbital is to be launched in June. Aside from the United States, other countries like Russia, Europe and Japan also make occasional shipments.

Meanwhile, SpaceX also tested a landing system that will help rockets return independently to a landing pad, NBC News reported.

Being able to recover and reuse rockets are key parts of SpaceX CEO Elon Musk's strategy to reduce the cost of spaceflight.

After the launch of the company's Falcon 9 rocket, carrying with it the robotic Dragon cargo capsule, Musk said the testing have shown some positive signs.

"Data upload from tracking plane shows landing in Atlantic was good! Several boats enroute through heavy seas," Musk posted on Twitter . "Flight computers continued transmitting for 8 seconds after reaching the water. Stopped when booster went horizontal."

© 2014 FashionTimes.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Fashion Times.
