
Before I begin my remarks, I am required to tell you that the views I am expressing today are my own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Commission, my fellow Commissioners, or the staff of the Commission.

Before I discuss how we can work together to better harness the power of prevention, it’s worth taking a moment to review why I think compliance is so important.

These guiding principles – quality assurance, quality control, and escalation – are just as important to our financial markets.  Every person in this room appreciates that, as you strive each day to promote compliance at your firms.

Investors rely on you.  The markets rely on you.  And regulators rely on you.  Firms must have good policies and procedures.  But more important than that, they need smart and dedicated people to implement and enforce best practices.

And on top of these rules, you have to grapple with other challenges, such as cybersecurity and the increasingly global nature of business.  You have to anticipate, plan for, and adapt to changes.  I know it takes a lot of work, and I deeply appreciate the importance of your mission.

Make no mistake, you have great responsibility:  whether drafting and implementing policies, influencing executives’ decision-making, identifying risks, investigating allegations of misconduct, or reporting violations.

First, let’s talk about sticks.  The Commission recently imposed a $200 million penalty against a large bank for misstating financial results and lacking effective internal controls.  This breakdown in controls, a core part of compliance, contributed to billions – yes billions – in trading losses.  The penalty was unprecedented for this type of case and is one of the largest penalties in the history of the Commission.  Yet it amounted to a tiny fraction of the firm’s net income for just one quarter.

What are the right expectations for CCOs?  Again, I need your input.  Should the Commission establish a minimum baseline of conduct for CCOs?  It could contain basic obligations, such as requiring the CCO to establish and implement policies, and escalate issues that arise.  And to whom should the CCO escalate issues?  Executives at the firm?  The board?  A firm committee?  And what happens if the CCO receives an unsatisfactory response?  There are no easy answers here, but we must make the effort to bring guidance and clarity to you on these issues.  And we need your help to get it right.

I personally believe that having an executive sign an attestation leads to a more rigorous internal assessment of a firm’s business and regulatory capabilities.  Nothing focuses the mind like signing your name.  This strengthens a firm’s compliance program.  And it gives you some heft when making the case to your firms to bolster compliance.

[i] See, e.g., Mariassunta Giannetti and Tracy Yue Wang, Corporate Scandals and Household Stock Market Participation (January 2014).

[ii] In the Matter of Transamerica Financial Advisors, Inc., SEC Release No. IA-3808 (April 3, 2014).

[iii] Andrew J. Bowden, Spreading Sunshine on Private Equity (May 6, 2014).

[iv] SEC v. Diamond Foods Inc., SEC Release No. 22902 (January 9, 2014).

[v] In the Matter of Parallax Investments, LLC, SEC Release No. IA-3726 (November 26, 2013).

[vi] In the Matter of J. Kenneth Alderman, Jack R. Blair, Albert C. Johnson, James Stillman R. McFadden, Allen B. Morgan Jr., W. Randall Pittman, Mary S. Stone, and Archie W. Willis, SEC Release No. IC-30557 (June 13, 2013).

[vii] See Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, White Paper: The Evolving Role of Compliance (March 2013).

[viii] In the Matter of Carl D. Johns, SEC Release IA-3655 (August 27, 2013).

[ix] Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Rule 3013.
