
The company also rejects talk of 16-hour days and 60-hour weeks.

AER LINGUS HAS accused cabin crew staff of seeking 32 extra paid days off as they prepare to strike.

Cabin crew in the IMPACT trade union will strike on 30 May in a row over rostering.

A spokesperson for IMPACT trade union said the cabin crew were taking the action because the company had failed to engage on the rostering issue for so long.

However, the airline has hit back tonight, saying that the proposed “5:3″ roster plan would be unworkable.

“Aer Lingus cabin crew enjoy very favourable conditions of employment in the airline sector, and this extends to the rosters they work,” the company said in a statement this evening.

“Aer Lingus cabin crew already have between 26 and 31 days annual leave, but the IMPACT Union is seeking the equivalent of an additional 32 paid days off for cabin crew, which is clearly unacceptable.

Aer Lingus say that claims of 60 hour weeks and 16-hour days “bear no resemblance to actual rosters”.

“A detailed analysis of actual Aer Lingus rosters over the last 12 months shows that the average working week for cabin crew was 30 hours, and that the incidence of staff working greater than 50 hours in a seven day period was less than 0.5%.

They called on IMPACT to call off the strike, which is set to disrupt a large number of passengers over the June Bank Holiday weekend.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Aer Lingus says cabin crew demands would lead to 32 extra holiday days”.

Feedback on “Aer Lingus says cabin crew demands would lead to 32 extra holiday days”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
