
Members of Missouri University of Science and Technology’s Engineers Without Borders student chapter will travel to Los Eucaliptos, Bolivia, to help establish a clean source of drinking water.

Members of Missouri University of Science and Technology’s Engineers Without Borders student chapter will travel to Los Eucaliptos, Bolivia, to help establish a clean source of drinking water.

The students will leave for Los Eucaliptos Wednesday, May 21, and return Thursday, May 29. The team will scout for locations to drill a new well, continue to monitor current erosion control barriers, assess areas at risk of flooding and work to educate and train the local community to eventually pass responsibility of the distribution and storage system to the residents.

In 2011, the team connected electricity to the community of approximately 30 large families. Currently, clean drinking water is being sourced and stored. After the completion of the project, the team hopes to build a community center.

Dr. Richard Stephenson, chancellor’s professor of civil, architectural and environmental engineering, is the Engineers Without Borders faculty adviser. Dr. Eric Showalter, associate teaching professor of civil, architectural and environmental engineering, will travel with the team.

Desiree Beardmore, a senior in nuclear engineering from Grain Valley,

Brandon Bringer, a senior in nuclear engineering from Arnold,

Emily Courtney, a freshman in ceramic engineering from Springfield, Missouri,

Emily Echele, a sophomore in civil engineering from Portage Des Sioux,

Joseph Hakanson, a junior in mechanical engineering from Maryland Heights,

Julie Langenfeld, a senior in geological engineering from Cape Girardeau.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
