
The Mortgage Bankers Association of Georgia (MBAG) Board of Governors has elected John David, “J.D.,” Crowe, president of Southeast Mortgage of Georgia, Inc., to serve as 2014-2015 President of the association.  The MBAG is a trade association comprised of mortgage lenders, brokers and affiliated industry associates dedicated to the preservation and improvement of the mortgage banking correspondent system.

The Mortgage Bankers Association of Georgia (MBAG) Board of Governors has elected John David, “J.D.,” Crowe, president of Southeast Mortgage of Georgia, Inc., to serve as 2014-2015 President of the association.  The MBAG is a trade association comprised of mortgage lenders, brokers and affiliated industry associates dedicated to the preservation and improvement of the mortgage banking correspondent system.  J.D.  assumed his role as president on May 17, 2014 and will serve a one-year term.

With more than 15 years experience in the mortgage industry, J.D. Crowe has been actively involved in the MBAG holding several executive positions over the last few years.  He is also two-time past president of the Georgia Association of Mortgage Brokers (GAMB), served on the GAMB Board of Directors, the Board of Directors for the Georgia Real Estate Fraud Prevention and Awareness Coalition, the Georgia Mortgage Brokers Political Action Committee Board and was active in the GAMB and MBAG legislative committees.  J.D.’s involvement has aided these groups in strengthening relationships with state and national officials.

“It’s a great honor to serve as the MBAG President for 2015,” said Crowe.  I am grateful to the past presidents for their dedicated service to the association over the years and to the entire board for offering me the opportunity to make a difference in our industry.  Throughout my term I will continue the association’s dedicated efforts to provide value and benefits to our members and the finance industry through continued communication, education and advocacy.

"The Mortgage Bankers Association of Georgia elected the perfect choice for its next President.  J.D. brings a wealth of knowledge to his position drawn from his experience in the broker industry, correspondent industry, and now from a direct non-bank lender's perspective.  He is ideally placed to help steer the association as they work with businesses to accelerate growth,” said Cal Haupt, CEO of Southeast Mortgage of Georgia.

Southeast Mortgage is a full-service Georgia mortgage lender offering FHA , VA,USDA, renovation and conventional loans in addition to jumbo financing and construction financing for builders.  As the largest non-bank lender in Georgia, Southeast Mortgage is committed to assisting clients with their home purchase, refinancing needs or the purchase of investment property. The firm is licensed in Georgia, Alabama, Florida, and South Carolina, allowing them to extend their mortgage lending service to out-of-state clients.  Southeast Mortgage is one of the few Georgia mortgage lenders with processing, underwriting, and document preparation all housed in Atlanta, Georgia to better serve clients.
