
FREEPORT, Maine — The first non-family member to lead L.L. Bean is planning to step down in 2016 after more than a decade as CEO. Chris McCormick, president and chief executive, told employees he’s giving early notice so there can be a smooth transition.

He helped to transform the 102-year-old retailer from a catalog company into a multi-channel retailer that does most of its business online. He also sped up the opening of retail stores, with 19 in operation and plans to open three more this year.

The privately held company is coming off its fourth consecutive year of growth.

McCormick has been with L.L. Bean for 31 years, including 13 as president and CEO. He succeeded Leon Gorman, grandson of founder L.L. Bean. The current chairman is Bean’s great-grandson Shawn Gorman. He said the company will look at future business needs and long-term financial goals before zeroing in on someone to be CEO. Gorman said his preference is to promote someone from within L.L. Bean.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
