
Loudoun County is asking the public to comment on proposed tick awareness signs that would be placed at trail heads and in parking lots, at sites operated by the Department of Parks, Recreation and Community Services.

The signs would have “Prevent Tick-Borne Diseases” in large letters and would urge people to wear insect repellent, check themselves for ticks daily, promptly remove ticks with a tweezer, and shower soon after spending time outdoors. The signs also advise residents to call a doctor if they develop a fever or rash.

Images of the proposed signs, in English and Spanish, are at www.loudoun.gov/ticksigns .

G4S, a leading U.S. security company, will conduct applicant screening and interviews at the Loudoun Workforce Resource Center during two “Meet the Employer” events this week, county officials said in a statement.

G4S said that it has more than 600 positions to be filled in Ashburn, Sterling, Herndon, Chantilly, Manassas and Haymarket. Openings include executive roles; positions in management, administration and security; sales jobs; and entry-level positions.

Candidates must apply at www.usajobs.g4s.com before the recruiting event. Screening and interviews will be from 1:30 to 4 p.m. Tuesday and 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Friday.

The Loudoun Workforce Resource Center is in the Shenandoah Building, 102 Heritage Way NE, Leesburg.

The Loudoun County Chamber of Commerce says it recruited 177 new members during its three-day #UniteLoudoun membership drive.

More than 250 local business, community and government leaders participated in the campaign, chamber officials said.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
