
High on the list of laws that keep government in check are the sunshine laws. In Oklahoma, those are the Open Meeting Act and the Open Records Act, which help assure that the public’s business remains public.

Too often, members of the public encounter a bureaucrat who believes the title on his business card imbues him with special knowledge of what’s good or bad for his fellow Oklahomans, or who thinks the law is more suggestion than mandate. Reporters encounter that misguided thinking more often than most, because news organizations, acting as their fellow Oklahomans’ eyes and ears, attend more meetings and request more records than the typical resident.

Public access to meetings and documents forces those on the taxpayers’ payroll to remember who their bosses are. A job at a state agency, city, county, court or school district isn’t a membership in a private club. It’s precisely the opposite; operating on the public’s dime entitles the public to know what you’re doing.

Oklahoma’s transparency laws fall somewhere in the middle of the pack, doing more for the public than some states’, but less than others. The problem is finding a legislator with the courage to draft and push for better ones. There is a risk in that. The public bodies affected by such new laws generally don’t like being forced to air more of their laundry; only the most honest and noble willingly invite public scrutiny of their work. Legislators need friends, and they don’t make many new ones when they pry open a door or lift a dust ruffle.

All the more reason, then, to applaud state Sen. David Holt. The Oklahoma City Republican authored three transparency bills this session that have been signed by the governor. The first, Senate Bill 1513 , makes Oklahoma Highway Patrol dash-cam videos available to the public. Openness breeds confidence, and confidence in law enforcement is crucial; they have the guns, restraints and jails.

The second, SB 1497 , puts some much-needed force behind the transparency laws. Although violation of the acts is a misdemeanor, it’s hard to persuade a district attorney to prosecute a fellow elected official. Under the new law, members of the public will be able to bring a lawsuit now that attorney fees are recoverable.

The third bill, SB 1448 , makes birth records public after 125 years and death records public after 75 years.

Oklahoma doesn’t have perfectly clear windows yet, but Holt’s legislation notably improved the view.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
