
Seventeen  of Virginia’s 50 fastest growing companies are located in Fairfax County, according to a new ranking by the Virginia Chamber of Commerce.

Awards to top-growing firms were presented at the 19th annual Virginia’s Fantastic 50 banquet, held May 1 at the Westfields Marriott in Chantilly.

To be eligible for inclusion in the list, a company must be privately held with headquarters in Virginia; have sales of between $200,000 and $100 million; and demonstrate positive revenue growth and net income in the most recent fiscal year.

Millennium Corp. of Arlington topped the ranking.

Fairfax County firms that were on the list include PD Systems, Alexandria (ranked second statewide); MindPoint Group, Springfield (fourth); Eagle Ray Inc., Chantilly (seventh); C2 Solutions Group, Reston (eighth); TeraThink, Reston (10th); Three Wire Systems, Falls Church (11th); Zantech IT Services, Tysons Corner (12th); Kore Federal, Tysons Corner (13th); Technatomy Corp., Fairfax (15th).

Also, First Line Technology, Chantilly (18th); Advanced Technology Systems, Tysons Corner (19th); Integrity Management Consulting, Tysons Corner (23rd); Veris Group, Tysons Corner (34th); U.S. Information Technologies Corp., Chantilly (35th); Data Networks Corp., Reston (39th); Search Technologies Corp., Herndon (46th); and Sevatec, Merrified (48th).

The complete list of the top 50 firms can be found on the Web site at www.vachamber.com .

Posted in Fairfax , Fairfax on Monday, May 19, 2014 6:30 am. Updated: 10:42 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
