
Phablets are definitely a big thing these days. Everyone laughed at Samsung a few years ago when it presented the first Galaxy Note, which came with a 5.3-inch screen, but nowadays all flagships are at or past the 5-inch mark. And phablets just keep getting bigger – see Sony’s 6.4-inch Xperia Z Ultra, for example.

The ‘bigger and bigger’ trend doesn’t look like it will stop anytime soon, but Samsung is about to take it to pretty absurd levels in its home country of South Korea, according to the latest leak.

The company is getting ready to reuse the Galaxy W moniker that it previously had for a smartphone that launched 2011. The new Galaxy W will be sold exclusively by SK Telecom, and it will apparently be marketed as a phablet. That’s despite its humongous 7-inch screen.

Yes, a 7-inch phone is what Samsung will try to sell you next. Will it succeed? We’re tempted to say “no way”, but then again that’s what people said of the Note line, and it’s since been selling in the tens of millions. So who knows. Maybe this will be successful, especially in phablet-obsessed Asia.

The Galaxy W could sport a faux leather back cover, like the Galaxy Note 3, and it may come with 720p HD resolution on that huge touchscreen. It will have a 1.2 GHz quad-core processor, 1.5 GB of RAM, an 8 MP rear camera, a 2 MP front camera, 8 GB of internal storage, and a microSD card slot.

The specs you just read are for the SM-T2558, which is likely what the Galaxy W’s model number will be, but there’s no guarantee just yet. The T in that designation is a bit odd since Samsung has so far reserved it for tablets, but maybe the Galaxy W started out as a tablet and only ended up being a phablet after spending a while in development. Or something like that.

There’s also a possibility that this handset will be sold internationally too, perhaps branded Galaxy Mega 2 or Galaxy Mega 2 7.0 (the first generation Mega came in two size versions too, so it wouldn’t be out of the ordinary for this model to be accompanied by a smaller one too, perhaps a 6-incher).

But the Samsung SM-T2558 which leaked not long ago and this Galaxy W may not be the one and the same device after all, so do read those purported specs with a grain of salt for now. We’ll keep you posted.
