
“We are looking at solar investments with great interest,” Chief Executive Officer Khalid al-Falih of Saudi Arabian Oil Co. told a conference in Bahrain.

The comment suggests that authority over renewable energy in the kingdom may be moving toward Aramco, which has for decades built up Saudi Arabia’s oil industry and has the expertise to manage giant contracts with Western companies.

To date, the Saudi renewable strategy has been managed by King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, an organization chartered by the government working outside the Energy Ministry. KaCare officials in May 2012 said the nation was seeking $109 billion to create a solar industry by 2032, though there’s been little evidence of progress since then.

Shaikh’s company is interested in bidding on the new solar projects announced by KaCare.

Aramco’s work would be separate from those contracts.

Falih of Aramco said Saudi Arabia needs to be patient in adding solar capacity and do it “slowly and carefully” to avoid mistakes like those made in European nations, which had to ratchet back subsides after creating an uncontrolled boom in solar panel installations.

Aramco signed initial agreement to develop plants generating 300 megawatt of solar power in remote areas in  Saudi Arabia to reduce the burning of diesel for power generation in these areas, Falih said.

A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Daily Star on May 20, 2014, on page 5.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company is planning to add more solar power, a move to limit domestic fossil-fuel consumption in the world's biggest exporter of crude.

Shaikh's company is interested in bidding on the new solar projects announced by KaCare.

Aramco signed initial agreement to develop plants generating 300 megawatt of solar power in remote areas in Saudi Arabia to reduce the burning of diesel for power generation in these areas, Falih said.
