
Designed with an integrated filter media from 3M, AIR protects wearers from up to 99% of plant spores, airborne pollens and viruses. Breakthrough breathing technology helps increase airflow up to 60%.

"Our new website allows visitors to quickly and easily access information about the product line and the benefits of AIR's technology, thanks to a modern, streamlined look and feel," said Jeffrey Rassás, CEO of AirWare Labs. "In addition, we are excited to offer the new subscription service, which protects our customers from facing even a single day without AIR."

Website visitors who choose the subscription service will receive three 12-count boxes of AIR products automatically each month for a flat rate of $24.99 and free shipping -- a savings of nearly 20%.

The 30-second animated instructional video provides step-by-step instructions on proper usage of the AIR inserts to maximize effectiveness and comfort. "AIR inserts are extremely effective in protecting against allergens and viruses when worn correctly," said Rassás. "Our engaging video helps to ensure that every AIR wearer receives the best possible protection, every time the product is used."

AirWare Labs recently announced production of a branded video featuring TV and movie personalities Vincent Kartheiser (of AMC's drama Mad Men) and Adam Herschman, which will be accessible from the new website. The company also disclosed expansion of its licensing agreement with Breathe Active, LLC to Australia and New Zealand, as well as plans for a sales and manufacturing expansion into China. AIR® ALLERGY was selected as a 2014 Visionary Award Finalist for the VISION® Consumer Products Conference in Dallas, and in 2013 AirWare Labs announced a national rollout into 7,500 Walgreen's stores.

Forward-Looking Statement: The statements in this press release regarding any implied or perceived benefits from the release by AirWare Labs Corp. of its AIR® products are forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, risks and effects of legal and administrative proceedings and governmental regulation, especially in a foreign country, future financial and operational results, competition, general economic conditions, and the ability to manage and continue growth.

Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those indicated. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make in this news release include the introduction of new technology, market conditions and those set forth in reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to revise or update such statements to reflect current events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
