
When Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak said that it might be too late to save Malaysia Airlines (MAS) in its current form and bankruptcy might be one of the options as a way to restructure the national flag carrier, the immediate reaction of ordinary people like me is, MAS is finished, the country's image is tarnished, and there is no more hope for the interests of small shareholders!

In the eyes of economic analysts, however, it is not necessary bad for MAS to declare bankruptcy. Conversely, after removing the heavy historical burden, regardless of whether it is heading towards a crisis or a turning point, MAS still has a chance to revive, just like the Japan Airlines (JAL).

MAS is currently facing major difficulties, including suffering a net loss of RM443.4 million in the first quarter, with a pessimistic market outlook of up to RM1.9 billion of annual loss from analysts!

In addition to the severe loss, MAS is also facing labour sources problem, and the plight of declining number of passengers after the disappearance of flight MH370. It is now trapped in an unprecedented difficult operating environment.

MAS' current predicament is actually similar to the one facing by JAL, the Japanese national flag carrier that declared bankruptcy in 2010.

JAL used to have more than 100 of Boeing 747 aircraft and was the airline with most large aircraft, as well as the world's third largest airline.

The Japanese have always been known for strict and wise management but we could hardly believe that JAL had to file for bankruptcy protection with a debt load of ¥2.32 trillion on 19 January 2010 due to mismanagement and successive losses. The country's sixth-largest bankruptcy had caused a stir to the global aviation industry.

Equally unbelievably, JAL took only a year to restructure and gain profits, recording a miracle in the world aviation industry.

The person that led JAL rewrite its fate was Kazuo Inamori, regarded by many Japanese people as the "god of management".

Inamori was invited by the Japanese government to become the new Chief Executive Officer of JAL when it entered bankruptcy protection. He was already 78 years old at that time and a totally layman in the aviation industry. But surprisingly, the old man spent only a few months to change over the JAL management originally carrying the habit of defending their mistakes with various excuses without the courage to bear responsibility and sense of crisis, as well as the practice of serious bureaucracy.

Inamori initiated cadres re-training programmes to bring in new management thinking and concepts. Setting a good example himself, he gave lectures personally. Applying his Amoeba management system, namely to divide the company into small groups like amoebas and let them operate independently like small companies that bear their own losses or profits. As a result of his massive reform, the company made an unprecedented ¥188.4 billion of profit in the Japanese aviation history a year later, becoming one of the world's most profitable air carriers. It even emerged from bankruptcy protection in March the next year.

To replicate the miracle, MAS must first solve two major problems.

Inamori has a famous quote: Let each and every employee be Inamori. His management philosophy is, let each and every employee learn how to operate and let them operate, so that they can feel the significance of their work and enjoy the accomplishment it brings. Give capable employees equal opportunities to be leaders, regardless of age and experience, but morality must be prioritised.

Under the leadership of Inamori, JAL did not use low prices as its competitive conditions, but won reputation and customer confidence with good services. Among the most successful examples is, to make JAL the world's most punctual airline.

The management philosophy of Inamori does not sound arcane. However, it is no use to only understand it as what is important here is how to apply it.

There are so many revelations behind the miraculous revival of JAL that are worth learning and reflecting by MAS and the government. – mysinchew.com , May 20, 2014.

* This is the personal opinion of the writer or publication and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malaysian Insider.
