
Sherri Bannister (left), member service representative, and Kathy Borskey, manager of the Huntington County Federal Credit Union, handle a transaction with Ralph Matchett, a member of the credit union’s board of directors.  Photo by Cindy Klepper.

The Huntington County Federal Credit Union is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year.

Chartered in 1964 as the Huntington City and Postal Employees Federal Credit Union, its membership was initially limited to city employees, postal employees who worked in Huntington and credit union employees.

The credit union's current name, adopted in 2002, reflects a greatly expanded group eligible for membership, says Kathy Borskey, Huntington County Federal Credit Union manager.

The credit union is now open to anyone who lives, works, worships, volunteers or attends school in Huntington County, as well as businesses located in Huntington County.

All 883 of those members and their immediate family members are invited to celebrate the credit union's 50th anniversary at a picnic on May 31 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Community Building, in Hier's Park.

"It's a major milestone for the credit union," says Ralph Matchett, a member of the credit union's board of directors.

Troy Bauer serves as the board's president, with Tim Albertson serving as vice president. Other board members are Keith Eller, treasurer; Borskey, Carter Horne and Dale Osborn.

Eller served as the credit union's CEO and manager until Borskey assumed the manager's role in 2004.

Sherri Bannister, member service representative, joins Borskey to make up the two-member office staff.

The credit union was chartered on March 20, 1964, the result of efforts by the Huntington mayor and a group of city employees. Initially, the credit union offered only interest bearing savings accounts, secured loans and unsecured loans.

Like its membership, the credit union's services have also greatly expanded. Its offerings now include savings and checking accounts, secured loans, personal loans, Visa charge cards, loan protection products, IRAs, online account access and more.

The credit union started out with a location at the Central Fire Station, on Cherry Street, moving to an office on Condit Street in 1978. It moved into its current building, at 1885 Old U.S.-24 East, in 2001.
