
Twenty-four people, including company executives, have been detained as Turkish officials investigate the mining disaster that killed 301 people, a domestic news agency reported Sunday.

Ramazan Doğru, general manager of the mine owned by Soma Holding, and its operations manager, Akın Çelik, were among those detained. It said prosecutors were questioning five people Sunday but did not specify whom.

There were reports on Sunday that the owner of Soma Holding, Alp Gürkan, had also been detained. His son, deputy head of the Executive Board of the holding, was also detained late on Sunday. He was expected to be referred to a court later in the day.

Deputy Accounting Director Ali Ulu, engineers Ertan Ersoy, Selçuk Demirci, Erdem Canbaz, Harun Güneş, Hilmi Kazık, Yalçın Erdoğan, Saltuk Alpdemirci, Ergin Yılmaz, technicians Mehmet Avcı, Halil Dalkıran, Mehmet Ali Gündüz, Mustafa Işık, Necati Demirci and Halil Yavuz are also among the detained, according to a statement from Özgür Özel, a Manisa deputy of the Republican People's Party (CHP). Five of the detained have been referred to a court.

Özel also said that only Ali Ulu had a lawyer, and the others had requested lawyers from the state. Özel said lawyers from the local bar association in Akhisar had been assigned to the suspects, because local lawyers have said it would be unethical for them to take the case. It was not clear whether the company had failed to provide lawyers to defend its employees. CHP's Özel said it was highly unusual for the company not to have hired lawyers.

Government and company officials have insisted that the mine was inspected regularly and negligence was not a factor. But reacting to widespread public anger, government officials promised to investigate and pledged that any mine officials found to be negligent would be prosecuted.

The Milliyet newspaper said Saturday that a preliminary report by a mine safety expert who inspected the Soma mine suggested that smoldering coal caused the mine's roof to collapse. The report said the tunnel's support beams were made of wood, not metal, and the mine had too few carbon monoxide sensors.

Company officials have described safety standards as high, noting that the mine contained 50 gas sensors and employees were provided gas masks.

At a press conference Friday, Çelik said thick smoke from the underground fire killed many miners who were not carrying gas masks. Rescue workers entering the mine complained of high levels of carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide.
