
The Indus River System Authority (Irsa) has stopped filling the reservoirs and increased water downstream the dams to further augment cheap hydel power generation and minimise the loadshedding. Punjab irrigation engineers told Business Recorder on Sunday that the water regulatory authority was releasing 65,000 cusecs water downstream the Tarbela Dam for hydel power generation against the inflow of 43,000 cusecs water in the mighty Indus.

Similarly Irsa had increased water outflow downstream the Mangla Dam by 15,000 cusecs from 40,000 to 55,000 cusecs for power generation and irrigation purposes, they added.

According to sources, the hydel power generating units at Tarbela, Mangla, Ghazi Barotha, Warsak etc were presently producing around 4,500MW electricity against their peak monsoon capacity of 6,500 MW.

A low lies over north Balochistan and adjoining area. A western disturbance is still affecting western and upper parts of the country.

Widespread thunderstorm/rain with gusty winds and isolated heavy falls would occur over Fata, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir. Further, fairly widespread thunderstorm/rain with gusty winds and isolated moderate to heavy falls may come about over Punjab (including Islamabad) and Balochistan. Also, isolated dust thunderstorm/rain with strong winds and a few moderate to relative heavy falls is expected over Upper and Central Sindh. Chances of hailstorm could not be excluded.

Rain thunderstorm associated with gusty winds is expected at scattered places in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, North Balochistan (Quetta and Zhob divisions), Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan.

Multan 34, Parachinar 32, Saidu Sharif 29, Khanpur 27, Barkhan 19, Dir 14, Kotli 13, Bahawalpur A/P, M Jabba 11, DG Khan 10, Jhang, Bahawalnagar and DI Khan 08 Sahiwal, TT Singh, Okara and Zhob 07, Mandi Bahauddin 06, Faisalabad 04, Parachinar, Bannu and Kakul 03, Mianwali, Peshawar City, Garhi Dupatta and Kohat 02, Panjgur, Saidu Sharif, Murree and Mangla 01, Peshawar A/P, Risalpur, Islamabad A/P, Jhelum, Chakwal, Johrabad and Muzaffarabad = Trace.
