
Regulatory directives often elicit strong responses from those they influence, but few rules have caused the level of feedback and outrage generated by the NCUA's proposed risk-based capital rule as the May 28 comment deadline approaches.

Described variously as punitive and a tax on cooperatives in terms of the risk weightings it applies to credit unions’ long-term assets, critics say the rule as currently outlined could cripple credit unions’ competitive advantage. At the very least, the demand for significantly increased capital reserves for critical areas like CUSOs, mortgages and member business loans will restrict some credit unions’ growth and service to members.

Created to help offset potential financial problems like those that led to the 2008 recession, the NCUA's proposed regulation has standards stricter than the Basel III guidelines applied to the banking industry, which had a greater hand in creating the recession. Starr and others have spoken out in favor of adapting some Basel III criteria in place of NCUA's much heftier risk-weightings.

But outright application of the international monetary group's guidelines is not appropriate for credit unions and community banks, according to Michael Edwards, vice president and chief counsel for the World Council of Credit Unions in Madison, Wis.

Basel III was developed for complex international banks, the smallest of which has $222 billion in assets, as a way to further monitor and control risk factors that could lead to another financial crisis, Edwards said. The same set of rules does not apply to credit unions, especially since more-stringent guidelines already exist.

At least some elements of the NCUA's proposal were prompted by a directive from the General Accounting Office, issued largely in response to the meltdown of the corporate credit union system. However, no timeline for response was set and no distinct parameters were outlined in the directive.

GAO 12-247, issued Jan. 4, required the NCUA to document and verify corporate credit union losses, as well as define additional triggers for Prompt Corrective Action requiring “early and forceful” regulatory steps and recommendations for modifying PCA requirements to define those steps.

While some believe this directive has played a hand in the current proceedings, others note that the agency itself has been less collaborative and more adversarial in recent years, effectively helping stymie the very cooperation on which the cooperative movement is based.

The agency's increasingly dictatorial approach may be polarizing the movement to a degree that makes it hard for credit unions to effectively grow and provide member service, Filson said. Moreover, he said, a heavy-handed approach of imposing rules rather than managing individual situations may be punishing the many for the sins of a few.

The current risk-based capital rule is fraught with flaws, not only in its risk weighting for long-term assets, but also in its method and intent of application, said Filson.

Public concern over the rule is now reaching beyond industry borders. Washington lawmakers also have taken issue with the proposed regulation. As of May 13, nearly 75% of the U.S. House had joined Reps. Peter King (R-N.Y.) and Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.), both members of the House Financial Service Committee, adding their names to a letter voicing concern over the proposed regulation.

Signed by 173 Republicans and 151 Democrats, the letter said the rules could force credit unions to charge more or eliminate some services. It added, “We encourage the board to 1) take into account the cost and burden of implementing new risk-based capital requirements beyond the current leverage ratio; 2) provide justification and more clarity as to why the proposed risk weights differ from those applied to other community financial institutions; and 3) give credit unions more time than the proposal's allotted 18 months to come into compliance after it is finalized.

The risk-based capital proposal is the single most significant rule credit unions have ever faced, according to Filson. While many have offered recommendations for adjustments that would make it more appropriate to financial cooperatives, the consultant sees little hope for a positive application of any variant of the rule whatsoever.

“The rule should be withdrawn, period,” Filson said. “If the NCUA believes that risk-based models are valid, then examiners should work with the tools within credit unions and take the experience back for evaluation.

READ about U.S. House letter to the NCUA about RBC: CUTimes.com/RBCintheHouse .

READ about SECU considering charter change over RBC: CUTimes.com/RBCcharter .

Advertisement. Closing in 15 seconds.
