
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

--Collaboration can breed efficiency, and five area business organizations hope small business owners reap the benefits of the partners' new educational program.

are setting up the Small Business Boot Camp to offer training and educational resources to that segment of the business community for a nominal fee.

With limited resources, it can be difficult for small businesses to stay on top of issues that can have a significant impact on their operations.

Keeping the events affordable was an important consideration for the organizers, Groharing said.

"Whether a business has just one or 100 employees, there are a wide variety of issues of which a small business owner should be aware, and we want to bring that information to them."

with what organizers hope is the first in a series of events.

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

The Gallagher rep will focus on the Affordable Health Care Act.

7:30 a.m.

8 to 9 a.m.

9 to 10:30 a.m.

. Registration forms are available at the offices of any of the five event sponsors.

Groharing said she has drawn on her involvement with Sauk Valley Shop Small to get a better handle on the concerns of small business owners.

"We've talked quite a bit about proposed minimum wage increases, the Affordable Health Care Act, taxes, retirement and succession plans, and insurance," Groharing said. "There are lost business days with things like fires and water main breaks. They want to know if they have enough protection."

The events are not exclusively for business owners or chamber members.

"They could be very beneficial for people who are just thinking about starting a business," Groharing said. "They are open to anyone who is interested."

Organizers hope that the boot camps will become quarterly events. They plan to get creative and add some fun to the educational experience.

. "It's kind of like speed dating, only you get 2 minutes at a table, exchange some information, then go to the next table."
