
CtrlS Datacenters Ltd., a leading MSP which owns Asia's largest Tier 4 datacenters, launches its 1000-rack new pad at its Mumbai Datacenter. CtrlS' business philosophy of 'total customer ownership' has led to several pioneering achievements and today enjoys the position of enabling India's first tier 4 datacenter and incidentally Asia's largest.

The new generation pad incorporates several 'firsts' in terms of infrastructure features, a pointer to CtrlS' intent to keep pace with the ever-growing demand from enterprises.

For the first time, CtrlS has introduced a multi-zone gas based Fire Suppression System (FM-200), which operates through a selector-valve mechanism. This not only enhances the efficiency levels, but takes security provisions to an entirely different level by granting the system N+N redundancy.

installation, doing away with the hassles of raising dust or interrupting the smooth flow of operations on the production floor.

Other interesting features include increase lux levels (from 500lux to 800lux), a boon to IT Asset Managers in terms of enhancing efficiency levels. Use of high-energy efficient CRAH/PAHU machines with an IKW/TR as low as 0.09 KW/TR (incidentally, the least possible in the industry) effectively addresses the need for power-saving solutions.

For the first time, the new pad makes use of PDU's in a unique zigzag winding arrangement with K-13 for better harmonic cancellation. Arranged in this manner, the PDUs optimize efficiency with lower, no-load losses along with the soft starter arrangement to avoid in-rush current on upstream networks or UPS.

Attention to detail makes the new pad, the best in its class. High quality detail and fixing of all the fit outs and the judicious use of white color ushers in a bright environment and at the same time allows for less lighting and hence acts as a power saving mechanism. An additional 'Meet Me' room has been added in the new pad which increases the redundancy of the rooms from N+N to 2N + 1. Incidentally, CtrlS has made provision for higher efficiency treated fresh air systems across all its datacenters.

With the launch of the 1000-rack new pad, CtrlS moves one step ahead in its mandate of delivering value to its customers through a continuous stream of enterprise-grade solutions.

About CtrlS Datacenters Ltd.

With a deep-rooted belief in the Total Ownership philosophy, CtrlS services 2,000 clients globally; many of them demanding segments like BFSI and telecom. We also services clients from other industries like IT/ITeS, manufacturing, logistics, utilities and government sectors as well. Having built Asia largest and India's only Tier 4 certified datacenter, CtrlS offers customers an unmatched 8 levels of physical security backed by the highest uptime in the industry of 99.995% at all times. With aggressive growth plans afoot, CtrlS will soon have a pan India presence with datacenters already built and ready to use in Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi, with two more coming up in Chennai and Bangalore.

For more information, please log on to www.ctrls.in .

Communications, CtrlS Datacenters Ltd.
