
Though its technology and driving range break no new ground, the 2015 e-Golf has the efficiency and smooth driving habits that appeal to electric-car fans.

A day darting around San Francisco shows that VW's first electric vehicle lives up to VW's expectations.

And it comes in a classic design, packed with useful features needed to lure buyers who have yet to consider a plug-in car.

The new Golf platform also underpins a wide range of small cars across Volkswagen Group's global brands, including VW, Audi, Seat and Skoda.

Rather than retrofit the outgoing platform for an electric vehicle, VW wanted to wait until it could use this setup -- dubbed MQB -- since it was designed with an all-electric option in mind. This was another reason for VW's late arrival to the EV marketplace.

Volkswagen today announced pricing for the all-new 2015 e-Golf as the electric hatchback prepares to "charge" into dealerships in the fall. VW's first fully electric, zero-emissions vehicle starts at $36,265, including an $820 destination charge, for the SEL Premium model.

The e-Golf is powered by a compact electric motor and 24.2-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack, good for 115 horsepower and 199 pounds-feet of torque. It's mated to a single-speed automatic transmission. Volkswagen said the e-Golf has an average range of 70 to 90 miles and a 7.2-kilowatt onboard charger, achieving an 80 percent battery charge within 30 minutes. The hatchback offers three driver-selectable modes: Normal, Eco and Eco Plus.

54.5 miles per gallon. That is the target fuel efficiency for all light-duty vehicles by model year 2025. Yet if you’ve gone car shopping lately, you’ve noticed that the combined mpg is nowhere near that target. The average fuel economy of all new cars sold was 25.6 mpg as of July 2014.

That’s a huge gap. While average fuel economy continues to improve, the target benchmark seems impossible to reach.

That’s because we’re looking at two different measurements of fuel economy.

For those of you keeping score at home, the ADJUSTED target—the one that matters to us—is  approximately 40 mpg, not 54.5 mpg.

Our 25.6 mpg average means that we as a post-industrial automotive culture are much closer to reaching a more sustainable level of emissions and fuel use.

The EU is calling for more stringent limits on lung-damaging smog pollution. Tailpipe exhaust is one of the major contributors to smog.

BRUSSELS (Reuters) - EU regulators are preparing draft legislation that will require vehicle fuel use to be tested on roads rather than in laboratories, looking to close loopholes that allow car makers to exaggerate fuel-saving and emissions credentials.

Already from Sept. 1, slightly tougher EU testing standards will be enforced, in line with a global push for accuracy. More-stringent standards are likely to be opposed by automakers.

European Commission research published last year showed that lab techniques, such as taping up car doors and windows and driving on an unrealistically smooth surface, explained around a third of a recorded drop in average EU emissions of planet-warming carbon dioxide (CO2), linked to reduced fuel consumption.

An EU official, talking on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to speak to journalists, said a proposal on "a new real-world testing method" was expected by the year-end. This would need to be endorsed by EU member states.

Renovo Motors Inc.,

The past and the future collided today at the Pebble Beach Concourse D’Elegance with the unveiling of an all-electric supercar that is modeled after the 1964 Shelby Daytona Coupe.

In the words of Bill and Ted, excellent.

The rear-wheel drive, 3,250-pound supercar gets a 0-60 mph time in under 3.4 seconds, faster than a Dodge Viper, Lamborghini Superleggara and other supercars, though nowhere near the mindblowing 2.2 seconds for the Porsche 918 Spyder , which also uses twin motors. The 918 also has a 4.6-liter V-8 engine, however.

The 2014 Mitsubishi Mirage ES, which is the more equipped of the two trims, starts at $15,195 (manual transmission is $1,000 less).

A 2013 Chevy Volt charges up at a Charge Point public station in the Aqua Hotel parking garage at 225 N. Columbus in Chicago. In the background another Volt charges up.

The Scion iQ has a CVT that boosts its fuel economy to 37 mpg combined. Fuel cost of $10,703 over 8 years will offset the relatively high msrp of $16,420 with delivery.

The Scion iQ has a CVT that boosts its fuel economy to 37 mpg combined. Fuel cost of $10,703 over 8 years will offset the relatively high msrp of $16,420 with delivery.

Little sibling to the Buick Enclave 7-passenger CUV, the Encore is nearly a foot shorter than crossovers like the Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV-4.

From squeezing between a Dumpster and a wall to holding your breath as a bus hard stops at your bumper, cities can be an automotive minefield. And cars are often the casualties. Need proof? Look no further than auto insurance rates. A 40-year-old male with a 2012 Honda Accord in Manhattan's West Village would pay 27 percent more for the exact same coverage than if he lived across the Hudson River in Hoboken, N.J., according to CarInsurance.com's analysis of six leading carriers.

Yet scores of Americans still prefer to live in the city. From New York to San Antonio, the country's 25 largest urban centers are home to 31.9 million people within city limits, according to the 2010 Census. That's 10.3 percent of the entire U.S. population in 2010, and given the trend of  increasing urbanization , it doesn't look like it will recede anytime soon.

Chevrolet announced today that the next generation Volt will make its debut at the 2015 North American International Auto Show in Detroit.

Chevrolet announced today that the next generation Volt will make its debut at the 2015 North American International Auto Show in Detroit.

The next generation Chevy Volt plug-in hybrid will debut at the 2015 North American International Auto Show in Detroit in January.

All we know so far is dates and past performance, but both are enough to get excited about.

The Volt could benefit from a boost in range, a drop in the $35,000 price, and a bit more interior space or the option for the four-seater to seat five.

The Volt has been outsold by the all-electric Nissan Leaf nearly every month since the two were launched in December 2010. The Leaf is cheaper to buy (both cars qualify for a $7,500 federal EV credit ,) and own than the Volt, even though the Volt has nearly four times the range of the Leaf.

Ford is walking the walk of fuel efficiency.

Ford shook up the automotive industry with the radical redesign of America’s best-selling vehicle, the F-150 pickup truck , which got a lighter-weight aluminum body and a fuel-maximizing EcoBoost engine. Last year it launched an all-electric version of the Ford Focus; Ford calls the gas variant the best-selling car in the world.

It’s a gamble to radically change such successful products but Ford is doing it in a way that pairs instead of opposes fuel economy and performance. Another example is the 2.3-liter turbo four-cylinder EcoBoost 2015 Ford Mustang outperforms the V-6 and gets better fuel economy.

Ford’s greatest fuel economy gains are found in its Energi line, which is Fordspeak for plug-in hybrid. It applies to the Fusion midsize sedan and the C-Max wagon, both introduced in 2013.

DETROIT (Reuters) - Tesla Motors Inc, the California-based maker of luxury electric cars, said it expects to build more than 60,000 cars in 2015, after spending heavily this year to update and expand its Fremont assembly plant.

Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also said the company will fund 40 percent to 50 percent of the estimated $4 billion to $5 billion cost of building a new "gigafactory" to produce cheaper and more efficient battery packs for its future electric cars, including the $35,000 Model 3 range that is due in 2017.

The automaker has accelerated the expansion of the Fremont plant, which builds the $70,000-plus Model S sedan and will add a companion crossover, the Model X, next spring. Musk said the plant now can build up to 1,000 cars a week, and will double that by the end of next year.

(Reuters) - Panasonic Corp plans to initially invest about 20 billion to 30 billion yen ($200-300 million) in Tesla Motors Inc's planned lithium-ion battery plant in the United States, a person familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.

The Japanese company, which already supplies batteries for the electric vehicle maker, will ultimately invest about $1 billion in the planned $5 billion battery "Gigafactory", the person said.

The figures for Panasonic's investments were first reported by the Nikkei business daily earlier on Tuesday.

A Panasonic spokesman declined to confirm the investment figures, saying that while the company has signed a letter of intent to participate in the Tesla battery project and was in talks on the matter, no concrete decisions had been made.

The 2014 Mitsubishi Mirage ES, which is the more equipped of the two trims, starts at $15,195 (manual transmission is $1,000 less).

Starting at $12,995, the 2014 Mitsubishi Mirage DE with 5-speed manual transmission gets an EPA-estimated 34 mpg city/42 mpg highway. The DE with CVT starts at $13,995 and improves by 3 mpg. The ES pictured is $1,200 more for each transmission.

The value-extending 2014 Mirage needs to rescue Japan's sixth largest automaker from vanishing in the U.S.

It has everything you need. Hands-free calling, USB port, push start button, keyless entry, power windows, air conditioning, fold down seats, radio and a fuel economy gauge.

It seats five and offers over 40 cubic feet with the seats folded down, more than the Scion xD, Mazda2, MiniCooper Clubman, Ford Fiesta, Nissan Versa Note and Toyota Yaris.

This is not good for an automaker that is all but vanishing in the United States. While the Lancer may still draw in tuner fanatics and its motorsports program remains significant, Japan’s sixth largest automaker has less than one half of a percent market share here. In 2002, it was two percent.

The Obeche wood interior of the Tesla Model S and the 17-inch touchscreen that allows for Tesla to make vehicular improvements via software updates.

Tesla Motors confirmed plans for a compact all-electric sedan priced at an estimated $35,000 and due in 2017.

The Model 3 will be the third Tesla in the lineup, excluding the discontinued Roadster, and will compete against the BMW i3 plug-in hybrid .

Tesla CEO Elon Musk confirmed the model in an interview with the UK’s Auto Express. Musk initially wanted to call it the Model E, but Ford Motor Company owned the trademark. His electrified lineup of the Model S, the Model X crossover which is due in 2015, and the Model E could then be shortened to S-E-X.

He may have been joking.

Instead the Model 3 will be represented with three bars and the Tesla lineup as such: S-III-X.

It’s rumored to be 20 percent smaller and built on a different platform than the S performance sedan and the X crossover, according to Auto Express. Expected to have a 200-mile range, which is nearly 3 times other pure electrics, the Model 3 is expected to be unveiled in 2016 to go on sale for 2017.

The Lexus RX 450hybrid starts at $48,000, about $7,000 more than the RX 350 gas model.

The best-selling upscale crossover had a modest update for 2014, with the 450h front-wheel drive getting a pre-collision system.

The hybrid averages 12 mpg more around town than the RX 350, getting 30 mpg city and 28 highway. In five years time, owners will save about $3,500 on the 450h over the 350.

The car feels a lot bigger behind the wheel than it looks from the outside. This can be assuring for safety but it's grudging in sportiness.

Though the RX only seats five, it weighs 4,652 pounds. For it to be that big and that fuel-efficient means that the Lexus Hybrid Drive is working hard. The 3.5-liter V-6 engine churns out 295 horsepower.

For 15 years, the Lexus RX crossover has been the prescription for upscale car shoppers who want more than a sedan and less than a full-size SUV. Refined yet modest, fully capable and fully comfortable, the best-selling midsize has dominated the class and won awards that range from best resale value (Kelley Blue Book) to top safety picks (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety).
