
“It's an old, dying downtown,” Aukamp said.

Like many small communities in Central Illinois, the success of Macon depends on the major city, Decatur in this case, it's tied to. Populations have been declining for decades, and what were once thriving downtown areas are bare.

“We're left with skeletons,” Aukamp said, referring to the empty buildings along Front Street.

However, Aukamp said they may be seeing a turnaround as business owners, with financial help from the city, are able to invest in their hometown.

“People are taking the initiative on their own,” Aukamp said.

Macon has been using TIF funds since 2004 to help build up the downtown business district. Anyone can fill out an application and present their proposal to the city council, which determines how much and how the money will be distributed.

In the past few years, businesses such as the Chillbilly restaurant, The Bullet Trap and more recently Double J Hardware Store have fought the stigma of a dying small town by opening shop in Macon.

In the few months the Double J Hardware Store has been in town, Aukamp said it's already been beneficial to the city.

“It's saved us a trip,” he said.

Before owners Carol and Scott Jones opened in January, people had to drive at least 25 miles to Farm & Fleet in the South Shores area of Decatur for supplies, and even farther if they needed extensive hardware equipment. The Joneses purchased the building last May and converted what used to be a grocery store into hardware store named after their sixth-grade son, Jacob Jones.

“It's not as easy as it lets on to be,” Scott Jones said about opening a business.

The store is very much a family business, as Carol Jones is the owner and operator, and her husband has been helping her get started, and their dog waits patiently in her kennel when there are customers.

The Joneses said the poor weather kept most people inside this winter, but business has been picking up as people start spring projects.

“It's gonna take a while for them to get used to us,” Carol Jones said.

The store carries hardware, tools, electric motors, furnace filters, nuts and bolts and “whatever you need to fix your home,” she said.

Another new business in the works is Sweet Endings bakery.

Jeanne Hill is a member of the Macon City Council, so she knew where to turn for help opening her dream business.

It will be in the old city hall building at Front and Frick streets, which was purchased from the city by her boyfriend, Darrick Hulva, last summer.

“I've always wanted to do this kind of thing, and the opportunity just came up,” Hill said.

The plan was to open by Christmas until she had an accident with a log splitter Dec. 2. Hill had been working with Hulva, who sells wood to local businesses, when her left hand got caught in the machinery. Her hand was crushed and her index finger was almost severed.

“Several surgeries later and lots of therapy, I'm getting better,” Hill said.

Conscious of how much baking is hands-on work, she's been doing therapy to gain hand and finger strength. The goal right now is to hold a fist.

Hill learned how to bake from her mother and grandmother. She's been baking on the side for people for some time, with a favorite being her mother's cinnamon rolls. She plans on having a small inventory of baked goods on hand, and baskets of baked goods for birthday and holidays, but mostly she'll be taking orders. Her bakery will be filling a need for the area.

“You really can't get that kind of stuff anywhere that I know of in town,” Hill said.

Most people in Macon went to the Cake and Candy Connection in Moweaqua for special cake and cookie orders, but that shop closed in February.

“I've had a lot of people asking when I'm going to get this up and going,” she said.

With the help of Hulva, and her father, who's retired from American Fixtures in Decatur, Hill said she hopes to have the store open by mid-summer or at least partially by the street festival in June.

“It's kind of a mess right now,” Hill said.

The TIF money is in Hulva's name because he bought the building. The funds are going toward the purchase and upgrades for the old building. The small, white structure used to be the city hall and has been used as a food pantry, but not for some time.

“It's pretty much been sitting empty for 10 years,” Hill said.

The building needs some exterior work, and the plumbing has to be redone. While it has good hardwood floors, they have to be covered with ceramic tile because it will be a commercial kitchen.

“I knew it was going to be a lot of work, and I knew what we were getting into as far as the building,” Hill said.

As far as finances, Hill said she's being careful and picking up bakery equipment as she runs across it for several years. She's been back and forth with the health department, checking that everything is in order.

“I didn't want to spend any unnecessary money,” she said.

The Bullet Trap, which opened three years ago, brings people into Macon to take concealed-carry classes, and other businesses are benefiting.

“The people that come down and take classes, 80, 90 percent are not from Macon,” Aukamp said.

Bullet Trap owner Dan Cooley said he's glad to be part of the growth in the area.

“I'm amazed what a busy little town it's been down here,” Cooley said.

Some of their classes, such as those for concealed-carry or pistol safety, last eight hours, and he caters lunch through a local business. Business has been booming, bringing in customers from places such as Champaign and Taylorville. He chose Macon because he knew the previous owner of the building and the application process with the city was simple.

“They were easy to work with and (had) a lot less restrictions,” Cooley said.

Experienced woodworker Dean Conaway retired from Archer Daniels Midland Co. in April and is using the opportunity to open an antique shop with his wife.

Country Pickers, 123 S. Front St., was set to open at the beginning of May, after the poor weather delayed some earlier construction. Conaway tore down most of two deteriorated 19th-century buildings to create the shop but kept the store front and a few other features.

“We're trying to keep that image,” Conaway said.

In the back, in what used to be a butchery, will be his wood shop. His wife and co-owner, Bev Conaway, collects antiques and will run the collectibles and craft side of the business. They have applied for TIF funding and are waiting to hear back.

“We decided to look in that avenue of opening up our own store and then it worked well with what the city was offering with the TIF project,” Conaway said.

He wants Country Pickers to be a community store, and several people have lined up booths to sell their artwork.

“There's a lot of people that do great on crocheting that do beautiful work and don't have the avenue to move some of the stuff,” Conaway said.

When it comes to the need for an antique shop in the area, Conaway said he isn't too worried, even though some people had their doubts at first.

“If you run a good store, a clean store, antiquers who collect don't mind traveling a bit,” he said.

Aukamp said several other new businesses have opened such as the Chillbilly restaurant and a construction company on Front Street. The South Macon Fire Department would like to build a new station in an empty lot across from the post office.

Seeing the new businesses come in, Jeanne Hill is optimistic about the future of the city. She pointed to the new Meridian High School building, school district construction and the Richland Community College scholarship for all high school graduates as examples of Macon's growth.

Copyright 2014 Herald-Review.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Call today!

Username & Password Required!
