
Sending employees on international assignment is a strategic business decision for many companies. While often necessary to compete in the global marketplace, employees abroad may bring hidden and unknown risk. This series will identify various considerations in several countries and discuss proactive measures that employers may implement.

While U.S. companies can send their U.S. citizen employees to Mexico easily and quickly without having to obtain visas, it is important for HR and Global Mobility Managers to remember that while holding business visitor status an individual is very limited in what he or she can do, which can seriously impede an individual’s daily activities. For example, business visitors may not open bank accounts or secure loans, and they may be ineligible to apply for visas to visit other countries while in Mexico. Many of these activities are not related to an employee’s job duties, but they are directly related to their ability to live comfortably in Mexico for several months and, in our experience, are a major source of unforeseen frustration. As such, GT highly recommends obtaining Temporary Resident (TR) visas at a Mexican consulate before traveling to Mexico, particularly when dealing with high-level employees and executives.

Mexican consulates no longer have jurisdictional restrictions based on where an individual resides so employees can apply for TR visas at any consulate outside of Mexico. The wait times for appointments vary by consulate; however, most Mexican Consulates can issue TR visas anywhere from same day as the appointment to five business days.

Stealth business travelers – or employees who travel to foreign countries to conduct “business” without an employer’s knowledge – present hidden risk to companies. Compared with many countries, including the United States and Canada, Mexican authorities allow individuals to perform a broad range of activities as long as they are not being paid in Mexico. It is important, however, that pre-departure discussions are held with employees to make sure they understand what they can and cannot do while in Mexico as a business visitor, particularly considering that certain activity can have serious adverse effects. For example, if an employee is negotiating or signing contracts on behalf of the non-Mexican company, the employee could trigger the creation of permanent establishment for the non-Mexican company, which results in Mexican tax liability. As a result of such activities, the employee could also be considered a Mexican resident for tax purposes and would be subject to Mexican worldwide taxation. As always, it is critically important for companies to minimize stealth business travel to avoid unintended consequences.

Besides the risk of permanent establishment mentioned above, doing business in Mexico can also trigger Mexican social security requirements as an employee might be required to contribute to both the U.S. and the Mexican social security systems. Another important practice point: it is not unusual for U.S. citizen employees to be advised incorrectly by Mexican tax advisors that they do not need to pay U.S. taxes because they are Mexican residents under the U.S.-Mexico income tax treaty. Please remind your employees that U.S. tax advisors should advise them on their U.S. tax compliance.

©2014 Greenberg Traurig, LLP. All rights reserved.

Rebecca Schechter focuses her practice on business immigration. Rebecca represents multi-national corporations and companies, as well as individual clients. She has experience with labor certification and all areas of employment-based immigration, particularly H-1B, L-1 and I-140 petitions. In addition, Rebecca has experience handling deportation defense, family and employment-based adjustment applications.

Under certain state laws the following statements may be required on this website and we have included them in order to be in full compliance with these rules. The choice of a lawyer or other professional is an important decision and should not be based solely upon advertisements. Attorney Advertising Notice: Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Statement in compliance with Texas Rules of Professional Conduct. Unless otherwise noted, attorneys are not certified by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization, nor can NLR attest to the accuracy of any notation of Legal Specialization or other Professional Credentials.

The National Law Review - National Law Forum LLC 4700 Gilbert Ave. Suite 47 #230 Western Springs, IL 60558  Telephone  (708) 357-3317 If you would ike to contact us via email please click here.
