
Terry Spencer, center, president of ONEOK Partners, with chairman and CEO John Gibson, right, joined Gov. Jack Dalrymple on Tuesday, Nov. 19, 2013, at the state Capitol in Bismarck to announce the company’s plans to invest between $650 million and $780 million in the oil patch. The company plans to build a natural gas processing plant near Watford City by late 2015.

Only time will tell which cliche will play out in this current shale play known as the Bakken. One individual who can relate with the cycles of the North Dakota oil production is former North Dakota governor Ed Schafer. Schafer may be one of the more knowledgeable people in the Bakken formation due to his personal and professional pedigree. Schafer grew up in an entrepreneurial household being the son of Harold Schafer, founder of Mr. Bubbles. In addition, he was the sitting governor when the oil and gas companies started drilling in the Bakken. He also assisted with creating the business environment for the industry to move across the boarders from Canada and drill in North Dakota. Currently, Schafer is involved with a number of energy projects and endeavors, including a seat on the board of directors for the largest Bakken producer, Oklahoma-based Continental Resources.

"I think we are in better shape than in the late '70s," Schafer said.

"In 1979, the price of oil peaked and the oil production in North Dakota virtually stopped. And when that happened a lot of communities got stuck with developments and projects they couldn’t pay for."

Schafer said as we push closer to a million barrels a day, the state is more tempered and even if the price of oil goes down, activity will continue in the Bakken.

"You might see the drilling go down, but not the production," Schafer said. "They are not going to go in and cap a well like they did in the '70s. This play is different and I think we have learned our lesson."

Joseph D. Mahon, Economic Analyst, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, has been following the Bakken for some time and said it is like nothing he has ever seen before.

"The boom we are seeing in the Bakken is historically unprecedented.

Not only in the 9th district of the Federal Reserve, but nationally as well," Mahon said. "It really ranks up there with some of the historical resource booms and along with that, you can see some of the development patterns you expect to see a resource boom."

Mahon believes the energy industry breaks down into two dimensions - the drilling and the investments.

"There is the actual drilling and exploration of the oil and gas."

Mahon said, "The other side of it is all the economic activity and investment that goes towards supporting that from materials to labor to all the other services that go into the support system."

Mahon also said the manic phase of drilling and extracting seemed to level off last year and shifted into a production phase focused on pumping the oil out of the wells.

According to Dr. Bill Dunkelberg, chief economist, National Federation of Independent Business, there are two bright spots in today’s economy - housing and energy. He believes housing is on the rebound and has already begun replenishing many of the workers lost during the 2008 economic downturn. The other economic driver is energy.

"Energy is an incredible bright spot for the economy," Dunkelberg said.

"Although much of it is focused in the net strip of Texas up to the Canadian border, there are other places like Pennsylvania and California, but this is creating jobs, opening up small business opportunity and overall growing our economy. It’s going to be a wonderful time for investing in the economy."

Dunkelberg also said the country can become energy independent over the next ten years and during that process, more jobs and economic opportunity will surface in all the energy sectors. He said natural gas is an example of how the country can become energy independent and create more positive economic outputs.

"Natural gas prices vary across the planet from $3 or $4 to $17, whereas crude oil is the same," Dunkelberg said. "Well, the difference is everyone can import and export oil. We can’t do that with our natural gas, we don’t have any way to export it right now."

Dunkelberg continued saying over the next ten years the country will develop the infrastructure to export that natural gas, creating jobs in communities all over North America.

Many energy professionals agree that creating a natural gas free market will not be cheap however. Ken DeCubellis, CEO of Black Ridge Oil and Gas, said the petrochemical industry is forecasted to spend $30 billion to develop infrastructure to capture natural gas and create a new natural gas logistical system.

"You hear people talking about NGLs, Natural Gas Liquids. That’s things like ethane, propane and butane," DeCubellis said. "Ethane can be turned into Ethylene, which is a precursor for polyethylene and other types of plastics and rubbers. And so the petrochemical industry itself is forecast to add about 30 billion dollars of capacity expansion here in the US to get access to that natural gas and convert it into plastics."

This investment and restructuring of infrastructure within the natural gas industry is something DeCubellis is familiar with.

"I used to work for Exxon Mobil and in the early 2000s into 2006. Exxon embarked on a multi-year program in the Middle East in a country called Qatar," DeCubellis said. "They wanted to get access to the natural gas in Qatar, liquefy it, ship it over to the U.S., re-gasify it off shore and get it into the grid. OK. Now what Exxon is trying to do is take all the natural gas that we are producing here in this country and export it. So they are going in the opposite direction."

Currently North Dakota is experiencing major investment into facilities from MDU Resources, Hess and ONEOK. These are a few prime examples of that industry wide investment in North Dakota. John Gibson, CEO of ONEOK and Chairman of ONEOK Partners, said the investment from the petrochemical industry and the special attributes of the Bakken’s wet gas are the reasons for their $3.5 billion investment in North Dakota.

"First off the investment into the natural gas industry is what is driving our interest into the natural gas liquids business. Our natural gas business allows us to gather these raw NGL’s all the way up into the Williston Basin and deliver them to the petchems," Gibson said. "In a cubic-foot of natural gas produced in the Williston (Basin) you will find somewhere around 8-12 gallons of raw natural gas liquids. That’s ethane, propane, butanes all mixed up. If you go down into Oklahoma or the Texas in the pan handle, that same cubic foot will have say, three gallons per MCF."

State Rep. Vicky Steiner, R-Dickinson, has seen the energy investment occurring in the Southern shale plays as well. She recently spoke at an oil and gas conference in Louisiana and while there, she toured several energy areas within the state and was amazed at all the construction taking place and number of gas facilities.

"What they’re really interested in is building more chemical plants with the gas that’s coming," Steiner said. "More plastics. They have tremendous amounts of chemical plants down there in Louisiana. It’s almost like a chemical row."

Dunkelberg agrees with DeCubellis and Steiner and said North Dakota will play a part in the overall puzzle to solving energy issues.

"North Dakota is going to see some of those plants," Dunkelberg said.

"But North Dakota’s really going to get it out, then send it somewhere.

And that will create a lot work putting pipelines in and everything that goes along with oil and gas extraction."

Another investment into the overall energy puzzle is the Dakota Pipeline project by MDU Resources.

"Our Dakota Pipeline project holds the potential to have significant impact on current and future Bakken natural gas production," said David Goodin, president and CEO of MDU. "As currently proposed, the Dakota Pipeline would have the connections to take Bakken-produced natural gas to eastern and mid-continent markets. With other export natural gas pipelines currently near full capacity, this potential new option could provide 400 million cubic feet per day of capacity out of the region.

And, depending on commitments, the line could be expanded to over 500 MMcf/d. This is good news for Bakken natural gas producers since it holds the potential to expand the options to get natural gas out of the Bakken."

With all that Bakken oil and gas activity spraying economic opportunity, the billion dollar question every investor is asking is "how long will this play last?"

Investing in the Bakken, whether through stocks, bonds or small business is largely dependent on market factors - which are often considered volatile and unreliable. However, a couple nice things about dealing with oil and gas is most of the companies plan three to five years out and are corporations. Therefore, they are required by their bylaws to spend what they project. It’s just regulations and price of oil that seem to throw a kink in everyone’s plans. Some call it the checks and balance system of the energy sector.

A recent report from consultant Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said their expectations from the Bakken and Three Forks is an average oil production of 1.1 million barrels a day in 2014, growing to 1.7 million barrels a day in 2020. With reserves close to $118 billion. The report also states the estimated investment into extracting that oil is more than $15 billion this year alone. Furthermore, the report suggests more than 14,000 new well locations are waiting to be drilled.

One company who sees bright Bakken futures is Black Ridge Oil and Gas.

The Minnesota-based company has an exclusive "laser focus" on the Bakken Three Forks and recently acquired new interests, while securing their foothold further in the Bakken.

"Black Ridge executed on a number of key transactions in 2013, including the core acreage swap into southern Williams County, closing the $125 million financing, and most recently, completing the $20.6 million Corral Creek acquisition in northern Dunn County; all positioning our Company for future growth," DeCubellis said. "As a result of these transactions and our strong operational performance, Black Ridge today is in the best financial and operational position in its history."

At year-end 2013, Black Ridge reports interests in 153 gross producing wells and 55 gross wells either preparing to drill, drilling, awaiting completion or completing.

U.S. Sen. John Hoeven, R-N.D., sees this energy play in the Bakken from a slightly broader perspective, but overall he believes its good business.

"The whole reason I ran for Governor in 1999-2000 is because I am a business guy," Hoeven said. "I bring a business focus to government and that’s what tried to do in my tenure as governor and that’s what I try to do in the U.S. Senate, create a business climate. Sure you have to have regulations, but they have to be common sense understandable and empower business."

Hoeven also said that right now North Dakota is leading the way in many areas of business from energy to agriculture to technology. His belief is the investments into North Dakota will not only benefit the people of the state, but also the country.

"What we’re working to do is to build the type of business climate that will empower our great entrepreneurs, companies and our small businesses to invest and make new and exciting things happen," Hoeven said. "We are leading the way in so many categories, that’s why everyone is asking what’s going on up here in North Dakota."

Hoeven cited MDU as a company that has taken action when opportunities surfaced. Goodin couldn’t agree more that MDU has been seizing the day as of late.

"There are many opportunities throughout the Bakken. You have seen our company act on these opportunities with the work we are doing to build a new refinery along with our plans to build an expansive new natural gas pipeline," Goodin said. "Our own utility and construction materials operations in western North Dakota are pretty good indicators of the state of the Bakken’s economy."

According to Goodin, MDU’s growth has come at a time when many utilities around the country are experiencing little to no growth. He also said their utility business will invest approximately $70 million this year to serve the growing electric and natural gas customer base associated with Bakken oil development. These are all positive trends for potential Bakken investors.

"Our construction materials business has added locations in Williston, Tioga, Watford City, Dickinson and Minot over these past three years and had a North Dakota backlog at March 31 of $125 million, up from $67 million a year ago," Goodin said. "These are all positive signals of the strong economy prevalent throughout western North Dakota."

Copyright 2014 Bismarck Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

View the North Dakota Industrial Commission Department of Mineral Resources Oil and Gas Division oil well daily activity reports .

For advertising opportunities in Bakken Breakout and Bakken Breakout Weekly, CLICK HERE .

Username & Password Required!
