
Cambridge wireless solutions business Cyan Holdings has brought experienced technology entrepreneur Harry Berry on board as a non executive director as it seeks to cash in on new opportunities in Brazil and elsewhere.

Berry’s arrival strengthens the former BT phalanx in the boardroom where chairman John Cronin is working hard to gain commercial traction for Cyan.

The company’s losses have widened in the year to December 31 – chiefly, says Cronin, due to investment in the future.

Despite his upbeat prognosis accompanying today’s results, the market delivered a different verdict with the share price down 0.005p (3.23 per cent) to 0.15p on early trading in the UK.

AIM-quoted Cyan delivers wireless solutions for lighting control, utility metering and industrial telemetry.

Cronin is seeking a show of faith from shareholders as the company strives to convert potential into payback.

Berry - who spearheaded the BT Brightstar and NVP initiatives from Adastral Park – will provide valuable international deal expertise.

He has over 30 years' experience in the technology and telecomms industries. He joined BT in 1970 and was responsible for the creation of BT Brightstar, a corporate incubator focusing on BT's R & D portfolio to create technology venturing.

He is currently European partner with New Venture Partners, a global venture capital firm dedicated to corporate technology spinouts with over $700 million under management.

Cyan will need every ounce of that expertise. Revenue in the last year fell to just under £138k from £315,194 in 2012. Cyan increased R & D spend to around £1.5m from £1.14m in the 12 months.

The operating loss increased to £3.266m (2012: £3.103m); cash balance at the end of year was £1.636m (2012: £1.618m).

Cronin said that since year-end, Cyan had seen deployment of a retrofit smart metering solution pilot at a utility customer in Brazil.

He added: “Cyan has successfully built and consolidated its position in multiple emerging markets through the investments we have made on shareholders’ behalf.

“The smart metering market in India is starting to see positive momentum and we have established good partnerships in Brazil. Our local partners are reporting strong prospects to close opportunities during 2014, some of which may be near term.

Copyright © 2014 Business Weekly | Technology News | Business news | Cambridge and the East of England. All Rights Reserved. Designed by JoomlArt.com .
