
Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

MUMBAI: ICICI bank has cut home loan rates for women and salaried individuals by 15 and 10 basis points, respectively. Home loans up to Rs 75 lakh will be available at 10.1% for women and 10.15% for salaried men as against 10.25% earlier.

The private bank's lending rates are now in line with that of State Bank of India, which were until now the cheapest in the industry. SBI offers home loans up to Rs 75 lakh to women borrowers at 10.1% and other borrowers at 10.15%. The rates are also cheaper than that of HDFC - the largest housing finance company , which offers home loans up to Rs 75 lakh at 10.25%.

"This is a limited period scheme and is applicable to those borrowers who avail home loans between May 15 and June 30," an official said. Since it is a special scheme, there is no change to the bank's benchmark Base Rate and there will be no reduction for existing borrowers.

ICICI Bank sources said that the cut in rates was part of a strategy to grow retail assets, which rose 23% last year at a time when corporate loan book grew by only 8%. Home loans are seen as the most secure part of retail business and within home loans, advances to the salaried have the lowest defaults.

SBI's rate for women also applies to joint loans where the women is the first co-applicant and the first owner in the case of a joint property. Another private lender Axis Bank also offers loans up to Rs 75 lakh at 10.25%.

Bankers say that 99% of loans are in the below 75 lakh category.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

ICICI's lending rates are now in line with that of State Bank of India, which were until now the cheapest in the industry.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
