
TCU alumni give back locally and globally.

Will Hopper is working in Malaysia as a high school English teacher on a Fulbright grant. Before moving to Malaysia, Hopper lived in the Dominican Republic as a financial analyst for Esperanza International. There he worked to give loans to churches and other organizations in order to make the church the center of the community.

Now, as an English teacher in Malaysia, Hopper said he hopes to instill motivation in students' hearts and become a friend that they can count on.

Jimmy Hopper, Will's brother, is currently working to open the first rural charter school in Tennessee. Hopper began teaching outside of Nashville, Tenn. through Teach For America, and decided to stay at the school after his term was up to teach U.S. history, economics and world government.

He and a business partner said they want to re-think education and create more opportunities for the students in their area. They plan to create a program that focuses on a value-based culture, academic excellence, the cultivation of leaders in the students and staff and individualized teaching plans. The school would function as a community center as well, and would serve as a place where families can meet, eat meals and take educational classes at all ages.

“The population of the school, if approved, will represent diversity, those of all statuses, using the school as an opportunity to expose them to as much as possible," Hopper said.

Rob Strong and Erik Yohe are actively making a difference on TCU’s campus through their program, Transaction and Investment Professionals. The TIP program is led by junior and senior boards comprised of TCU alumni that currently work in investment banking or in upper level finance jobs.

Strong and Yohe were members of the Neeley Fellows undergraduate program. Strong said the program has helped expand TCU’s financial network across the U.S. through a collaborative effort from the members on the boards. Yohe mentored Strong throughout college, which helped Strong find a job on Wall Street after graduation. Strong now works in Dallas for InfraREIT Capital Partners, managing unique Real Estate Investment Trusts. Yohe, after working on Wall Street, moved to work for Hilltop Holdings, an investment firm in Dallas.

“I have already seen the impact our program has had on the success of TCU students interested in investment banking and I am glad that I can pay it forward and give back to the school that gave so much to me,” Strong said.

Carlo Capua, Class: 2000, Major: Marketing with a minor in Japanese.

Carlo Capua is the general manager of Z’s Café, a restaurant that provides a second chance for its employees. He said that his mother’s passion for cooking and his desire to help others inspired him to open a restaurant that creates opportunities for those who wouldn’t have them otherwise. Z’s Café works directly with the Samaritan House to only hire those that have a troubled past and earn a low income.

Capua said their workers are looking to start over and become a part of a new family that cares about them and their success. Capua said that Z’s Café has put 89 people back to work since they opened four years ago. “We treat everyone who walks through the door like family,” Capua said. TCU is the restaurant's biggest catering client, and Capua said he hopes that more businesses can find ways to partner with non-profit organizations like the Samaritan House.

“God gave us two hands, one to help ourselves and one to help others,” Capua said.

Katherine Niederer-Morris helps to create strong families through education and counseling at Lena Pope Home in Fort Worth. Lena Pope Home consists of a charter school, Chapel Hill Academy and a low-cost early learning center that provides high quality education to low-income families.

As the donor relations coordinator, Niederer-Morris spends her time building a process that allows for efficient fundraising. Her goal is to reach as many families as possible. She is responsible for creating awareness and educating donors in order to fund the programs that they offer. She hopes to become an executive for a private or corporate foundation someday.

“I am a part of a team that works together to make the future of families, especially the kids, better,” Niederer-Morris said.

Laura Bozeman is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Adjutant General's Corps branch. She has served for almost 22 years and has taught English at The United States Military Academy at West Point. She also served as an advisor for the inspector general of Afghanistan from July 2011 to June 2012, “to help build a stable Afghanistan,” she said.

Bozeman has volunteered overseas as a conversational English tutor for the Mongolian Expeditionary Task Force in Afghanistan and at a military academy and ROTC program in South Korea. Her current full-time duty is to continue her dissertation to earn her doctorate degree in English from the University of Minnesota. Planning to complete her doctorate in May, Bozeman will return to West Point in August as a teacher and junior faculty mentor.

“I still remember the lessons my favorite professors from TCU taught me and now it’s my turn to pay it forward and make a difference in the Army of the future,” Bozeman said.
