
The seven Longmont properties that constitute the former Butterball campus near First Avenue and Main Street have been sold for $4.46 million.

According to the deed filed with the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's office Monday, the properties have been sold to a Delaware limited liability company called PFP Longmont Holdings.

The properties total 27.57 acres and 326,309 square feet of building space. The main plant building at 150 S. Main is almost 272,000 square feet of that space.

While PFP Longmont is the properties' ownership group, the developer is a separate entity called 150 Main LLC. Brian Bair, who represents both the property owner and Niwot-based 150 Main,  appeared before the Longmont City Council three weeks ago to announce that his group was  under contract to purchase the properties and to lay out  the first phase of what he said will be a phased redevelopment of the properties.

"We hope to bring that plan to the city this summer," Bair said Monday.

Phase one includes tearing down the five-story main plant building at 150 S. Main, which sits on 6.63 acres, and building a 250-unit apartment complex on that site.

"We're not quite sure if we can reuse some  of that or if we have to demo all of it," Bair said of the main plant building. "We're still working through a couple different plans."

The first redevelopment phase also would include converting the 1.5-acre 220 Kimbark St. and 1.34-acre 204 Emery St. sites, which sit across the street from each other, into a 40,000-square-foot commercial area.

Bair told  City Council that the group he represents would be seeking city assistance on the project, including fee waivers, water and sewer credits and assistance in the demolition and clean-up of the main plant building.

"The developer and the city — we've been talking about the potential incentives and what the city's role may be in order to facilitate this project," said David Starnes, the  city's redevelopment manager.

The plant has been shuttered since North Carolina-based Butterball closed its turkey processing operations in Longmont at the end of 2011. The campus  was initially listed for sale for $16.5 million.

Bair said the final price was not far off what his company had originally targeted to make the project work.

"It's a transitional area, so you're going to have some risks with the redevelopment," he said.

The closing of the property has no impact on the lawsuit that Butterball has filed against the city, according to city spokesman Rigo Leal. That suit is scheduled for a September trial.

The company sued Longmont over a 2012 zoning change that turned the property around the plant to "mixed use" from industrial.

Starnes said the plans brought forth by 150 Main LLC are exactly the kind of redevelopment  the Longmont City Council was seeking to achieve when it approved that zoning change.

Contact Times-Call staff writer Tony Kindelspire at 303-684-5291 or tkindelspire@times-call.com .
