
Share This Story!

The nonprofit helps to coordinate hiring.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

David Douglas organizes pieces of a robot at Computer Aid Inc., which employs people with autism.

NEWARK  – Mike MacAllister was among more than a dozen people working at Computer Aid Inc . on a recent day to carefully digitize paper files.

Elsewhere in the office, a robot made of Legos that can solve a Rubik’s Cube sat on a table. The creation was built as part of a training program for employees like MacAllister, who have been diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder.

The global IT service firm, commonly called CAI, is one of several companies coordinating with a nonprofit called Specialsterne, which helps link employers with potential employees living with autism.

“It’s a great job-creation model,” said Ernest Dianastasis, managing director of CAI.

Specialisterne , which last year opened an office in Wilmington, helps firms identify, train and retain workers who have been diagnosed with ASD but have the ability to work if given some support.

Among them is SAP, a global leader in the technology sector, which is bringing five new employees who have autism into its Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, office. The company’s leaders acknowledge it is not a large influx of new workers, but that’s intentional: They want to build in supports around the new employees and learn how they can best adapt to be more inclusive.

What other people might see as a disability can also be a person’s strength, advocates say. That’s why Specialisterne has a dandelion in its imagery, said Thorkil Sonne, who founded the company. Where other people might see a weed, children see a flower to make into necklaces.

“It’s all about the mindset,” Sonne said.

He was speaking at an event hosted earlier this month to SAP employees and community partners in its office in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, about its efforts to increase the number of people with autism on its staff. They outlined how they plan to start small and scale up the program, bringing a group to each of its worldwide offices. SAP leaders say they don’t see it just as a nice thing to do – it’s also good for business.

“You are giving people a shot who were never given a shot before,” Gov. Jack Markell said at the event.

About 15 new people are working at the CAI Innovation and Technology Center in Newark. The firm partnered with Specialisterne shortly after it came to Delaware last year.

Founded in 2004 in Denmark, Specialisterne brought an office to Delaware as part of its growth into the United States after Markell recruited them. The company helps people with autism find jobs by providing training, mentoring and other support functions.

A diverse workforce is better able to anticipate the needs of consumers if they bring to the table a wide swath of perspectives, several SAP leaders said during their May 1 presentations.

For instance, attention to detail, recognizing patterns and precision are all valuable skills for information technology and software creation, said Jose H. Velasco, the SAP autism and workplace coordinator.

A corporate office setting might screen out people who have trouble with eye contact or traditional communication skills. But they still have valuable assets they can contribute to the organization if given a chance, advocates say.

SAP intends to “think differently about how to evaluate talent,” said Anka Wittenberg, SAP chief diversity and inclusion officer.

SAP is working with Specialisterne, local nonprofits and government agencies, so they are including outside organizations with expertise in autism spectrum disorder. This helps them identify potential employees, interview them and train them so they are set up for success, leaders said.

The model is built so there is a circle of supporters who can help the employee and the workplace adapt to be more inclusive to those who might not fit in to the traditional corporate model.

The training isn’t just for new workers. Existing employees also are given information so they can learn how to help a new colleague. Some are serving as mentors.

SAP leaders said they needed four volunteer mentors in Newtown Square. More than twice as many said they wanted to do it.
