
In 2011, the European Union defined a number of measures in its Falsified Medicines Directive (FMD) to prevent counterfeit or fake medicines from entering the legal supply chain in Europe. One of these measures specifies that pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to print an obligatory feature on the outer packaging of drugs in order that the authenticity of the package can be uniquely verified.

To demonstrate how such a feature could be used to assuage the spread of counterfeit medicines, a consortium of German manufacturers and distributors of pharmaceuticals is now piloting a new identification system called “ SecurPharm ” which is expected to be rolled out in earnest in Germany in 2017.

A key feature of the SecurPharm system is that it enables manufactures to identify the name of the drugs, dosage, strength and pack sizes that they produce through the use of a product number known as a Pharmazentralnummer or PZN. However, because the PZN is only valid in Germany and not internationally, the number is then embedded inside either a Pharmacy-Product-Number (PPN), or a National Trade Item Number (NTIN) depending on the preference of the pharmaceutical manufacturer.

According to Martin Bergen, Director of the SecurPharm initiative, conceptually, both the globally unique PPN and the NTIN provide a similar function. Both impart additional data that specifies the name of the country that the drugs are destined to be sold in. This move renders the PZN number unique across individual European states.

However, while the additional country specific codes incorporated into the PPNs are issued to manufacturers on a royalty free basis by the German organization IFA (Germany), the NTIN coding data is only free for the duration of the pilot project, after which manufactures may be required to pay a small fee to GS1 (Belgium), which issues those codes to manufacturers.

In addition to the PPN or NTIN product number, data that specifies both the lot (or batch) number of the product, as well as the expiration date of the medicine must also be specified by a drug manufacturer. But since neither the product number, lot number or expiration date would provide a truly unique number that could be used to identify an individual pack of drugs, pharmaceutical companies are also required to add a randomly generated serial number.

This serial number, together with the product number, lot number and batch number, are then printed on the outside of the package of drugs in a machine readable 2D data matrix code that conforms to the ISO/IEC 16022 standard. The combination of all the numbers in the code provides each package with a unique means by which it can then be identified.

Having defined what data should be contained in the machine readable code, the developers of the securPharm system needed to create a means by which packages of medicines could be verified at dispensing pharmacies. To do so, they developed an automated system based on the use of two systems: a manufacturers’ database and a pharmacy server. While one database would suffice for such a system, the pharmacies insisted on a dual system approach to maintain the anonymity of each pharmacy, effectively preventing the pharmaceutical manufacturers from identifying any locations where products are dispensed and at what time through an anonymization procedure using the pharmacy server.

As part of the SecurPharm initiative, Arvato Systems (Germany) was given the responsibility to build the IT solution that enables pharmaceutical companies to upload and store the serial numbers of the packages on the manufacturers' server. The development of the pharmacy server, on the other hand, was built by ABDATA, a division of 5 4r , the German Federation of Pharmacists.

To use the SecurPharm system, each pharmaceutical manufacturer reads the data from the 2D data matrix code of each package of medicine prior to shipment using a data matrix code reader. The code numbers from each package, which incorporate the unique serial number, are then uploaded to the manufacturers’ database.

According to Peter Koop, Director of Pharma and Finance Solutions at arvato Systems, manufacturers currently transfer data securely to the database server using the HTTPS web based protocol that encrypts the data prior to transmission. Before the market phase another security mechanism should be introduced, which could for example, include Virtual Private Networks (VPNs).

Prior to dispensing a package to an individual customer, a pharmacy logs onto the pharmacy server, the 2D data matrix code from a package is scanned, and the data matrix code data with the unique serial number is uploaded to it. After the pharmacy server has confirmed that the request has come from a valid pharmacy, it renders the pharmacy data anonymous, and sends the data to the manufacturers’ database.

If a counterfeiter tries to copy the code of an original pack and to smuggle a fake product into the market, it will be discovered before the product is dispensed at the pharmacy.

When the codes on an individual pack of medicine have been compared to the manufacturers’ database on the server, and if the status stored in the database permits, the pack can be dispensed by the pharmacist. The status of the package on the manufacturers’ database is then updated to acknowledge the fact that it has been sold. If a counterfeiter tries to copy the code of an original pack and to smuggle a fake product into the market, it will be discovered before the product is dispensed at the pharmacy. The system then warns the pharmacy that a pack with the same data matrix code has already been sold, and that the product may be counterfeit.

The data packets transmitted during the verification process are very small. Therefore, even pharmacies using an internet connection with a low bandwidth will still be able to use the system. According to the most recent SecurPharm project status report, simulated verifications run on internet connections with old modems with a bandwidth of 14,400 bits/second showed that there were no significant delays. The critical factor for the system’s speed in the verification process is how many other processes are simultaneously running via the internet connection. If the connection is already at maximum capacity, then this can lead to verifications being processed not within milliseconds, but seconds, in some cases.

For the pharmaceutical manufacturers, the widespread use of such unique serialized codes onto packages of drugs will undoubtedly change the nature of the automated systems they deploy at their plants. According to Gunnar Bischoff, Business Model & Industry Marketing, Skill Building at Omron Europe (Germany), manufacturers must not only decide whether they will issue serial numbers at each drug production site or at a centralized facility, they must also ensure that systems are put in place to manage the allocation and storage of the codes applied to each package.

Prior to shipment, a package would be inspected by a machine vision inspection station which would verify that the 2D data matrix codes had been printed correctly and read the content of the code.

In one typical production environment, the unique SecurPharm codes would be allocated to individual packages from a database on a server and printed onto the packages by an inkjet printer. Once printed, a Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) would track the location of each package down a production line. Prior to shipment, a package would be inspected by a machine vision inspection station which would verify that the 2D data matrix codes had been printed correctly and read the content of the code. Having done so, the code would then be compared to the code allocated to the package by the printer server.

According to Omron’s Gunnar Bischoff, 2D data code identification and verification is often achieved today by comparing the pixels of an image captured by the vision system against a previously taught code. The inspection of the serialized code on the other hand will require the actual reading and verification of the code content.

This will result in a significant increase in data transferred between the inspection system, PLC and database, not in the least to enable the codes read by the vision system to be matched to those allocated by the printer server at sufficient speed. One such deterministic network that Omron has deployed successfully to perform such a role is EtherCAT (Ethernet for Control Automation Technology), the Ethernet-based fieldbus system optimized for process control applications.

Mr. Bischoff expects that the implementation of the new coding scheme will result in product rejection rates being up to ten times higher than today. This will place an onus on manufacturers to ensure that the printing systems they use will be able to be regularly adjusted to improve their performance. It may also may mean that they need to ensure that the personnel in the own production lines will be knowledgeable enough to make more frequent changes to the inspection parameters of the vision systems while still fulfilling requirements like GAMP 5 .

Avarto systems’ Mr. Peter Koop acknowledges that while communications issues at the individual production line and plant level are certainly issues that manufacturers must address, they will also need to discuss how their IT systems will interoperate with those at contract manufacturers who manufacture products on their behalf. Large multinational pharmaceutical companies often have over 200 such contractors working for them, and in such cases, they may need to  intra-company IT communications systems to enable the SecurPharm codes to be transferred to the contractors.

At pharmacies currently using older bar codes scanners, some attention may also need to be paid when specifying new equipment used to scan the 2D data matrix codes. SecurPharm’s Martin Bergen warns that since scanners used at such establishments are typically inexpensive and not as accurate as the ones used at drug manufacturers, personnel at pharmacies may need to be taught to configure them to effectively read the codes under all lighting environments.

So far, the SecurPharm trial has been a success. As of the first quarter of 2014, 24 pharmaceutical companies were participating in the project, and around nine million medication packages had been labeled. Over 86,000 successful verifications had been carried out using the system, during which time the system has been available almost 100 per cent of the time.

In February of this year, a partnership of pan European organizations involved in the pharmaceutical supply chain called the European Stakeholder Model ( ESM ) announced that it will be joining forces with SecurPharm. As a result, the German SecurPharm system will be linked to ESM’s European Hub in July this year; a move that will pave the way for disparate national verification systems in other countries in Europe to be linked together.
