
Copper futures reached a three-month high during early trading in Europe today, as China demand outlooks grew when the government expressed commitment to economic reforms. Japan posted a sizable growth in machinery orders earlier today, further supporting the metal. Elsewhere, Norilsk Nickel approved a $1 billion copper mine investment, aimed at supplying demand in China. Factory indicators to be reported later this week.

Copper futures for settlement in July added 0.75% to trade at $3.1705 per pound at 11:09 GMT today on the COMEX in New York. Prices shifted in a daily range between $3.1405 and $3.1840 a pound, reaching the highest level in almost three months. The contract added 2.09% last week as physical demand in top-consumer China, in addition to positive data from the US boosted the red metal.

The Chinese government revealed plans to accelerate the economic reform, which is aimed at improving growth in the world’s second-top economy. China consumes more than 40% of the world supply of copper, and the news impacted the red metal, boosting contract prices.

Earlier data from China revealed industrial output, as well as retail salesTracks the changes in retail sales' volumes. Information is gathered through a research including big retailers and an excerpt for the smaller ones. Higher volumes mean higher consumer demand, increased production and economic growth. Calculated both on a monthly and annual basis. and investments were slightly slowing. However, peaking construction activities, in addition to government stockpiling of the metal supported copper and made possible an 8% gain since mid March.

“It’s been an impressive rally from the March lows with a very strong seasonal backdrop to copper … total inventories are also declining very quickly at the moment,” said for Reuters Mark Keenan, analyst at Societe Generale in Singapore.

Also stemming positive sentiment for the metal, Japan’s core machinery orders, which exclude ships and utilities, for March grew by 19.1% since February, when an 4.6% contraction was recorded. On an yearly basis orders increased by 16.1%.

Previously, improving US housing data pared a slowdown in industrial output in the world’s largest economy. A report on Friday revealed building permitsTracks the statistics for housing construction, based on given building permits, issued by the local authorities. Does not track building permits numbers in areas of the U.S. where they are not obligatory. The statistics doesn't show how many constructions have really been started since most of the data is not available by the time of publishing the report. in the US increased 8.0% on a monthly basis in April to mark the highest figure since July 2008, while housing startsTracks statistics about the construction of single-family houses, which has just begun, marked by excavation works or laying the foundations of the building. Data from every single part of the country is compiled and it also includes overhauls of buildings, which lie on existing foundations. grew by 13.2% and settle at a six-month peak.

This week will reveal manufacturing PMIPurchasing Managers' Index. Economic indicators, based on monthly surveys among private sector companies. Conducted by the Institute of Supply Management in the U.S.  and by Markit Group in over 30 other countries worldwide. Gives information about the economic health of the manufacturing sector.  It is based on five major indicators - 1. new orders, 2. production, 3. employment environment, 4. inventory levels, 5. supplier deliveries. Base level is 50. Values above the neutral level indicate an improvement and below 50 - a worsening in the current state of the manufacturing sector. It is calculated every month and compared to the preceding. figures for China, the EU and US, with expectations of slightly lesser contraction in China and steady growth in the EU and US.

Elsewhere, Russia’s Norilsk Nickel, which is ranked among the top 10 copper producers worldwide, revealed plans to invest about $1 billion in a rich copper mine. The produce is aimed at supplying the dominant China market. The mine will be able to produce 10 million metric tons of ore a year. The project will have its go-ahead, as the company reached a preliminary deal with “a key Russian development institution on funding the project,” First Deputy Chief Executive Officer Pavel Fedorov said for Bloomberg.

According to Binary Tribune’s daily analysis, in case Copper July futures manage to breach the first resistance level at $3.1618 per pound on Monday, they will probably continue up to test $3.1767. In case the second key resistance is broken, the industrial metal will likely attempt to advance to $3.1938.

BinaryTribune is a financial media specialized in providing daily news and education covering Forex, equities and commodities. Our academies for traders cover Forex , Price Action , Binary Options and Social Trading .

MetaTrader4, Market Trader,  WebTrader,

Regulated by FCA of the United Kingdom.

Founded in 2013, Binary Tribune aims at providing its readers accurate and actual financial news coverage. Our website is focused on major segments in financial markets – stocks, currencies and commodities, and interactive in-depth explanation of key economic events and indicators.

BinaryTribune.com will not be held liable for the loss of money or any damage caused from relying on the information on this site. Trading forex, stocks and commodities on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite.

This website uses cookies to provide you with the very best experience and to know you better. By visiting our website with your browser set to allow cookies, you consent to our use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy.
