
This was the response of acting mayor Edgardo Labella following the recent pronouncement of Press Secretary Herminio Coloma that the city government should tap private sectors to fund Cebu City Medical Center’s construction instead of asking funding from the national government.

“It’s their primary duty to help Cebu. We all have concerns, but the construction of the hospital is also the concern of the national government. It takes two to tangle, and we cannot only depend on the private sectors. They (national) should be involved and give their shares.” Labella told reporters.

The Cebu Development Council has endorsed the P1-billion amount for the rebuilding and expansion of the CCMC to the national government to be included in the 2015 budget of DOH-7 under its Health Facility Enhancement Program.

However, Coloma reportedly said the national government cannot cover just yet all health-related projects and programs since multi-allocations went to the DOH since year 2010. Likewise, bulk of DOH budget is allocated for PhilHealth coverage, particularly its enrolment program.

“Ngano di man tagaan og priority ang construction of the CCMC? Makasubo…. Angay nato hunahunon nga ang health concern, just like education, is the mandate and primary concern of the national government,” he lamented.

Labella said the national government should not forget that the undertaking of rebuilding a “people hospital” is part of the private-public partnership.

He said the city and the private stakeholders have been doing their shares and giving contributions for the betterment of the general public.

“Wala magpasagad (city government and stakeholders) in taking the lead to address health concerns sa katawhan. But ang national government hangtud karon wa paman pud ni pledge for the construction of the CCMC,” Labella said.

The P300-million supplemental budget approved earlier by the City Council will be utilized as seed money to begin the construction and expansion.

Mayor Michael Rama is currently in Virginia, USA, to solicit funding from the Operations Smile board of governors.

Furthermore, more pledges from the private sectors are pouring in for the rebuilding of the city-run hospital.

Cebu Chambers of Commerce, according to Labella, pledged to help the city government in funding the new CCMC.
