
Welcome!

Markets finished on an upbeat note on Monday, as all three major U.S. indexes advanced with tech stocks leading the way. Investors should glean some important information later this week when the Federal Reserve talks policy and data on new and existing home sales hit the wires. Until Wednesday investors have little to go on, and even with that in mind shares of Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM     ) , Cliffs Natural Resources (NYSE: CLF     ) , and Consolidated Edison (NYSE: ED     )  ended as some of the worst performers in the S&P 500 Index (SNPINDEX: ^GSPC     ) . The S&P, for its part, added 7 points, or 0.4%, to end at 1,885.

Shares of Newmont Mining Corporation dropped 2.7% on Monday, though there was no overwhelmingly negative catalyst to send it lower. The gold and copper producer has been divesting of assets recently, as it attempts to shore up its balance sheets. Last week the company sold its Jundee gold mine, which operates out of Australia, to Northern Star Resources in a $91 million deal. Newmont Mining shares have been under serious pressure throughout the last year as metals prices have wavered.

At least Newmont's stock isn't on the same sort of losing streak Cliffs Natural Resources has been on. Shares shed 2.1% today, making the coal and iron ore producer one of the S&P's worst performers for a second straight day. Shares slumped on Friday as shareholders reacted to recent downgrades from two investment banks and a first-quarter report that revealed the company's ghastly coal production economics. Cliffs Natural Resources revealed that it excavated coal for $119.41 a ton, only to turn around and sell it for $88.61 a ton -- a business model that is far from sustainable.

Source: ConEdison website.

Lastly, shares of Consolidated Edison, a diversified utilities company out of New York, tumbled 1.6% today. The utilities sector as a whole was a pretty miserable performer on Monday, falling 1.5% to end as the worst-performing sector in the stock market. Consolidated Edison actually beat both earnings and revenue estimates last quarter, as it benefited from the high demand that the brutal winter weather brought.

John Divine  has no position in any stocks mentioned. You can follow him on Twitter, @divinebizkid , and on Motley Fool CAPS, @TMFDivine .

The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Add your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and AMEX data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates and Analyst Ratings provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
