
Matthew Brown mug shot. Photo provided.

VICTORY >> Domestic violence was a major factor in Derick Clark’s stabbing death and will likely result in charges being reduced against his attacker, Matthew Brown, Saratoga County District Attorney James Murphy III said Monday.

Brown, 18, a Schuylerville High School student, has been charged with second-degree murder and is scheduled to appear for a preliminary hearing at 4 p.m. Tuesday in Saratoga Town Court.

Brown is accused of killing the 32-year-old Clark, his mother’s fiance, late Friday night at 66A Gates Ave. in the village of Victory, where all involved lived.

Kindlon said Clark regularly came home after work, got drunk on liquor and abused Heather Brown, whom he said was on the verge of moving to a woman’s shelter.

Lt. Jeff Brown, a Saratoga County Sheriff’s Office investigator and not related to the defendant or his mother, would say only that “there was some drinking involved” — and that Matthew Brown was not drinking.

Kindlon alleges Clark flew into a rage Friday evening after Heather Brown hid his cigarettes. He said he has interviewed Heather Brown, her father, brother and sister-in-law at length. All live nearby and told him about a repeated pattern of spousal abuse, he said.

Clark was so angry about not finding his cigarettes that he threatened to kill one of Matthew Brown’s five pet cats, Kindlon said.

When Matthew Brown went upstairs, he found his mother lying on a bed and thought she’d been killed, Kindlon said.

Heather Brown got up and tried to intercede. During the struggle, Matthew Brown attacked Clark with a $30 hunting knife that he’d recently bought at Wal-Mart, Kindlon said.

Police confirmed that Clark died from a single stab wound.

Tuesday’s preliminary hearing is to determine if there is sufficient cause for Brown to be charged. If the judge rules there is, the case will proceed to a grand jury within 45 days.

Kindlon said he plans to ask for Matthew Brown’s supervised release from custody so that he can continue his schooling, at home if need be.

“I’m expecting this case to be over with quickly,” he said.

Kindlon, a high-profile Capital Region defense attorney, previously defended Christopher Porco, who was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree attempted murder after attacking his parents with an ax in their Bethlehem home. The crime was later made into a Lifetime Movie Network film.

Clark’s estranged father, Gary Clark of Jacksonville, North Carolina, contacted The Saratogian on Monday, seeking information about Derick Clark’s son from a previous relationship, whom he’s never met. Gary Clark said he hadn’t seen Derick Clark in about 15 years.

Gary Clark said he holds no ill will against Matthew Brown.

Heather Brown and Clark moved to Victory last fall. Previously, Matthew Brown lived with his father, Michael Plante, and moved back with his mother earlier this year, Kindlon said.

Matthew Brown transferred to Schuylerville High School from Hoosic Valley High School.

Maggie Fronk, executive director of Domestic Violence and Rape Crisis Services of Saratoga County, said domestic disputes are the second-most commonly committed violent crime in Saratoga County. There were four homicides in Saratoga County during 2011 and ’12, and domestic disputes were connected to all four of them, she said.

Fronk urged anyone in an abusive situation to contact agencies that can provide help them. The Domestic Violence and Rape Crisis Services of Saratoga County hotline may be reached at 518-584-8188.
