
Help finally arrives to remove flood trash in North Ridgeville, but the bin filled up fast.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Trash piles up on North Ridgeville street after flooding destroys basements and first stories of homes.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

NORTH RIDGEVILLE, Ohio - Trash continues to sit on curbs in North Ridgeville and it has residents frustrated about the mess and concerned about the mounting health threat.

Monday morning, the area along Willow Brook Lane looked more like a disaster zone than a residential neighborhood.

The line of garbage stretches some 200 feet and the trash still outside includes big screen televisions, couch sets, children’s mattresses, drywall, carpeting, hard wood floors and so forth.

On the city’s website, a message posted advised residents Allied Republic Waste would be picking up bulk trash on Saturday, May 17. The message also said the company would only be able to provide two to four trucks on Saturday with a concentration on the hardest hit areas, Ward 2 & Ward 4.

An Allied Republic spokesperson said Monday that the company has a huge stretch of area to cover due to the flooding. Saturday, the company said, they sent 22 trucks to North Ridgeville, North Olmsted, Olmsted Township, Avon Lake, Avon, Brunswick and other cities and gathered 300 tons of trash, including 110 tons from North Ridgeville.

However, in most of the hardest hit areas, residents didn't see trucks Saturday or Sunday. They woke Monday with the same heaps of garbage still outside.

North Ridgeville City Council will meet at 7:30 p.m. Monday in Chambers to discuss flooding, and residents say they will be out in full force.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
