
On a drive in a convoy of Google's autonomous vehicles last week, a difficult driving situation arose.

I wondered if that was because of a pre-existing agreement between Google and the department, but Jaeger said, "There is no agreement in place between Google and the PD."

"Right now the California Vehicle Code reads that the person seated in the driver's seat is responsible for the movement of the vehicle," Mountain View PD's Jaeger tole me in an email. "Exceptions being someone grabbing the steering wheel and forcing the car off the roadway, etc."

Google itself argues that the ticket should go to ... well, Google itself.

"Well, it does seem like there has to be some accommodation for the idea that it's not a person anymore, it's a machine. And the legislature in California kind of anticipated that" Medford said, referring to Senate Bill 1298 (Vehicle Code §38750), which requires the Department of Motor Vehicles to "adopt regulations governing the testing and use of autonomous vehicles on public roadways no later than January 1, 2015."

"What's not happened yet," Medford continued, "is that they haven't changed the motor vehicle codes. We've encouraged the DMV to think creatively about how you deal with this so they don't give a ticket to a person who is not responsible or involved in driving."

So far, the DMV has held four public hearings, the most recent of which was in March. These are nitty-gritty meetings in which everything, including the definitions of all the words, are picked apart.

The assistant chief counsel for the California DMV, Brian Soublet, opened the most recent meeting asking, specifically, if anyone had comments on the definition of operator in the legal code. "The vehicle code defines an operator as the person seated in the driver's seat," Soublet said, "or if there is no one seated in the driver's seat, the person who causes the autonomous technology to engage."

Medford was present at that meeting and made the first public response. He tries to draw the distinction between corporate and corporeal personhood in the definition of an operator.

"A person, if it is defined as a human person and not a corporation, that's what we're really wondering about," Medford said. "Even in this definition... does a person mean a human individual or can it mean something more? It would seem to me that in the future it might mean something different."

The DMV's Soublet responded: "Well, right, if you look at the common definitions that are in the vehicle code, a person includes a corporation and a partnership and other forms of entities. So when we think of a vehicle being operated, is it that inclusive? Is the operator that person, that could be a corporation?"

Again, Medford: "I think it would be important to make sure it stays as flexible and anticipates the future as much as possible, so it doesn't refer to a person in the human kind, at least. And it sounds like the vehicle code has a definition that allows flexibility, which I think may work, right?"

"It may. It may," Soublet said, "unless you have some other suggestions... For example, if you have a suggestion on additional verbiage we may want to use for operator."

Consumer Watchdog's John Simpson  spoke next, responding, it seemed, to the solicitousness of the DMV counsel. "I'm not sure that you want to provide maximum flexibility. I think you want to have a pretty good idea of what you're allowing and not allowing. To sort of say, 'We want to be able to do anything and be maximally flexible,' causes a little bit of concern for me. I worry about that notion, sort of open-ended, let's be completely flexible. We don't know what we're going to do today. We don't know what we're going to do tomorrow. So we'll be flexible about everything."

"If we are too constrained in the definition—and we talk about thwarting innovation—the problem may be that we have created something that even if we go to an additional rulemaking process, it takes about a year to get a regulation done. So then you'd have to have that waiting period as you're going through that whole developmental process," Soublet said. "It's not we want to be completely flexible, but we also want to keep in mind that to make changes, it would take time to make changes. And this is an area of technology that seems to be developing rather rapidly."

Listening to the debate, I also can't help thinking that perhaps the key enabling social technology for autonomous vehicles was the creation of the concept of corporate personhood.

They told us the future would be weird.
