
TRIPOLI, May 19 (Xinhua) -- The Libyan parliament speaker on Monday ordered a pro-government militia to safeguard the capital, just a day after the parliament compound was attacked by a militant group loyal to a renegade general.

In a letter to "Libya's Central Shield", a militia group from Misrata, General National Congress President Nouri Abu Sahmain urged to the militia to confront "attempts to take over power" in Tripoli.

"You are assigned to be deployed in Tripoli and secure the entrances and exits of the city, as well as vital and government institutions," Sahmain said in the letter, a copy of which was posted online.

An official from the Ministry of Defense, who spoke to Xinhua on the condition of anonymity, confirmed that Sahmain had requested the assistance.

Abu Bakar al-Enaira, a spokesperson for "Libya's Central Shield, " confirmed they had received orders to protect key roads and institutions.

The order came after days of bloody clashes in Benghazi and Tripoli, reflecting the interim government's struggle to control the increasingly fragmented nation filled with contradicting loyalties.

On Sunday, militants reportedly supporting retired Maj. Gen. Khalifa Haftar stormed the parliament compound and clashed with lawmakers, leaving two dead and more than 60 injured. The militant group, allegedly from Zintan, later announced they had suspended the Libyan parliament.

Sunday's assault on the parliament was seen as Haftar's latest attempt to steer the political process in Libya through violence.

The retired general announced on Friday his intent to purge Libya's second largest city, Benghazi, of "terrorists," leading his self-proclaimed "national army" into clashes, which left at least 79 people dead and around 140 wounded, local media reported.

Libya's interim government responded, calling Haftar's actions a "coup," and early on Monday Libyan Justice Minister Salah al- Marghani condemned Haftar and his supporters for "(expressing their) political opinions by using armed force."

The North African country has witnessed a drastic escalation of violence and has become a major base for rogue militant groups since the downfall of former President Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.
