
The three major platinum houses will oppose the legal bid tomorrow by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) to prevent them from communicating directly with their members in an attempt to break the 17-week strike in the platinum belt.

Anglo American Platinum, Lonmin and Impala Platinum are expected to oppose Amcu’s urgent interdict at the Labour Court to prevent them from speaking directly to members through SMSes and other electronic media.

This comes after Lonmin, the third-largest platinum producer, temporarily suspended its SMS campaign on Wednesday after it became clear that the process was not yielding any immediate success. Lonmin had set Wednesday as a deadline for striking miners to report for duty but this went unheeded as worries about safety persisted.

Lonmin has approached the court for an interim interdict for essential services employees to return to work. It said it would also lodge a legal battle to declare the strike dysfunctional following heightened tensions in Rustenburg.

At the same time, Impala said the crisis in the platinum belt was devastating.

“The human tragedy that is unfolding as a result of our employees not earning any income and the violence and intimidation being experienced in the platinum belt is devastating,” chief executive Terence Goodlace said on Friday.

The company expected to be paralysed until at least the middle of the year even if the strike ended soon.

“The resumption of normalised production levels at Impala Rustenburg, once the strike ends and operations resume, is expected to take at least three months to achieve.

“Consequently, no further production is expected from this operation in the final quarter of fiscal 2014,” which ends on June 30, Goodlace said in Impala’s production report for the quarter to March.

The company, which spends R1 billion a month to run the Rustenburg mine, estimates that it might cost as much as R3bn to restart it. Most of that would be mainly related to the amount of time to restore the underground workings, Roger Dixon, the chairman at SRK Consulting, said on Friday.

Impala said it had lost about 246 000 ounces of production since the strike started Prices achieved for the metal used in catalytic converters that reduce harmful carbon emissions from vehicles dropped 15 percent to $1 400 (R14 490) an ounce in the period from a year earlier.

Group platinum output declined 40 percent to 205 000 ounces in the company’s third quarter to March from a year earlier, it said.

Four Lonmin workers were killed ahead of the firm’s deadline for its employees to return to work last Wednesday. Amcu blamed the SMS campaign for fuelling divisions among employees and for heightened tension in the platinum belt.

Under the revised offer, employers proposed that the cash remuneration for entry-level underground employees would rise to R12 500 a month, or R150 000 a year, by July 2017.

Cash remuneration includes allowances such as the living out allowance and holiday leave allowance, but excludes medical and retirement benefits, and any bonuses.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
