
Amman, May 2014 - Microsoft Jordan has hosted Dr. Ashraf Abdel Wahab, Microsoft’s Corporate Affairs Manager for Egypt & North Africa, as a keynote speaker during a media roundtable that took place on Monday 12 May, 2014, at the Four Seasons Hotel in Amman. Held in the presence of a group of local media representatives and several Microsoft Jordan employees, the event was geared towards promoting cloud computing in Jordan and the region.

During the media roundtable, Dr. Abdel Wahab discussed various cloud computing privacy and security issues, and highlighted Microsoft’s efforts in the area of enhancing cloud safety for governments, companies and individuals alike.

Furthermore, Dr. Abdel Wahab shared the four main pillars of Microsoft’s cloud computing strategy in the region. These include: Helping governments adopt and benefit from could computing services; maximizing the value of cloud computing services in large enterprises; facilitating could computing services to small and medium enterprises (SME); and establishing an extensive local partner network of could computing services providers. Additionally, Dr. Abdel Wahab touched on Microsoft’s strategy to present cloud computing services that facilitate the creation and implementation of flexible solutions that cater to the diverse requirements of different entities, whether through building local cloud computing systems, utilizing public cloud computing services or combining both under what is known as the National Cloud.

Your browser does not support iframes.

Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq MSFT) is the worldwide leader in software, services and Internet technologies for personal and business computing. The company offers a wide range of products and services designed to empower people through great software - any time, any place and on any device.

Microsoft opened its Dubai-based Middle East office in 1991. Microsoft today has four subsidiaries in the Middle East region: Microsoft Gulf which oversees Microsoft activities in Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the UAE, Oman, Yemen and Pakistan, Microsoft Arabia covering the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Microsoft East Med covering , Lebanon, Jordan, Cyprus and Malta and Microsoft Egypt.
