
THIEF RIVER FALLS, Minn., May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Global electronic components distributor Digi-Key Corporation, the industry leader in electronic component selection, availability and delivery, today announced stock of Honeywell’s new Nanopower line of magnetoresistive sensor ICs . These devices are designed to accommodate a wide range of applications with large air gaps, small magnetic fields, and lower power requirements. They respond to either a North or South pole applied in a direction parallel to the sensor and do not require a pull-up resistor.

Honeywell’s Nanopower ICs use a very low average current consumption and a push-pull output, which does not require a pull-up resistor, operating from a supply voltage as low as 1.65 V, promoting energy efficiency. The series is available in two magnetic sensitivities to accommodate a variety of application needs: SM351LT for applications requiring ultra high magnetic sensitivity and a very low current draw (360 nA typical); and SM353LT for applications requiring very high magnetic sensitivity and a very low current draw (310 nA typical). The devices are supplied in the sub-miniature SOT-23 surface mount package on tape and reel for use in automated pick-and-place component installation.

These ICs reduce system cost and provide a durable alternative to reed switches in low-power battery applications, including industrial, medical, white goods, and consumer electronics.

Honeywell’s Nanopower series, as well as the rest of their robust sensor portfolio, is available now for immediate shipment by visiting any of Digi-Key’s global websites .

Digi-Key Corporation, based in Thief River Falls, Minn., is a global, full-service provider of both prototype/design and production quantities of electronic components , offering more than three million products from over 650 quality name-brand manufacturers. With over one million products in stock and an impressive selection of online resources, Digi-Key is committed to stocking the broadest range of electronic components in the industry and providing the best service possible to its customers. Additional information and access to Digi-Key’s broad product offering is available at www.digikey.com .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
