
Welcome!

The three Republican candidates seeking the party nomination in Tuesday’s primary race for the 9th Congressional District recently addressed issues with the Herald-Standard Editorial Board. From left are candidate Art Halvorson of Bedford County; Mark O’Keefe, Herald-Standard editorial page editor; candidate Travis Schooley of Franklin County and incumbent U.S. Rep. Bill Shuster of Hollidaysburg.

Republican candidates vying for a spot on the May 20 primary ballot for the 9th congressional district nomination recently met with the Herald-Standard editorial board.

Republican candidates vying for a spot on the May 20 primary ballot for the 9th congressional district nomination recently met with the Herald-Standard editorial board.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 2:00 am | Updated: 2:31 pm, Thu Jul 10, 2014.

Unemployment and the national economy as a whole are key issues facing Republican candidates for the 9th Congressional District race in Tuesday’s primary.

The GOP nomination is being sought by three candidates — incumbent U.S. Rep. Bill Shuster and challengers Art Halvorson and Travis Schooley.

Shuster, of Hollidaysburg, has held the seat since 2001 and currently serves as chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.

Halvorson resides in Bedford County, where he is a commercial real estate developer. Prior to moving to western Pennsylvania, Halvorson served nearly three decades in the U.S. Coast Guard.

Schooley is a U.S. Army veteran and has worked in municipal government. He and his family now operate a livestock business at their home in Franklin County.

The candidates recently met with the Herald-Standard Editorial Board.

The 9th Congressional District includes all of Bedford, Blair, Fayette, Franklin, Fulton and Indiana counties and portions of Cambria, Greene, Huntingdon, Somerset, Washington and Westmoreland counties. Rank-and-file members of the House receive a base salary of $174,000.

The Republican nominee will challenge Allana Hartzok of Franklin County.

Hartzok is running unopposed for the Democratic nomination.

The candidates are in agreement that the further development of energy resources in Fayette and other counties will reduce the nearly 8 percent unemployment rate that has plagued the area.

All three candidates also believe the government needs to step aside and allow the economy to flourish.

Shuster said that the region is poised to prosper with the discovery of natural gas supplies, in addition to the coal reserves.

The development of coal and gas reserves will spur the economy in western Pennsylvania, added Shuster.

Halvorson said that the $18 trillion national debt is weighing down the economy in Fayette County and across the country.

The answer is to reduce the size of the federal government, cut its spending and allow small businesses to flourish and new businesses to start, said Halvorson.

The outcome will allow rural areas, like much of the 9th Congressional District, to grow.

“It is the high taxes that are going to the federal government and being diverted to the cities that is responsible for the job loss and population loss in Fayette County,” he said.

Halvorson said that he favors further exploration of all oil and gas reserves. However, the federal government must lessen the restrictions it has placed on deep-water and federal land exploration.

Schooley said the sluggish economy and job-loss problems extend to every corner of the country.

“We have too many regulations and too much red tape,” he said. “Congress has not been able to control these regulatory agencies.

The government’s war on coal has impacted competition with China to deliver coal around the world, the ability to provide needed energy to regional power plants and caused job loss, added Schooley.

While Republicans Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and presidential candidate, and Rick Santorum, a former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania and presidential candidate, are supporting an increase in the minimum wage, Shuster, Halvorson and Schooley believe it would hurt the overall economy.

The imposition of a government-set wage translates into an additional cost to the employer and will likely cause that employer to look elsewhere to save that added cost, said Halvorson.

“It is a bad idea and will hurt the very people it is intended to help, the entry-level job-seeker,” he said. “They are not going to get a job, because employers are going to be laying people off.

Halvorson said that he would be supportive of an apprentice wage that would allow a person to learn a trade while receiving a fair salary and ultimately receive a permanent job.

“Give flexibility to employers with respect to wages, not artificially raise the minimum wage that will backfire across the country,” he said.

Shuster said that, while Romney and Santorum are welcome to their respective opinions, he would not support increasing the minimum wage. Wages will increase as the economy improves, he said.

“A growing economy will help everyone’s wages,” said Shuster.

Schooley said that a rise in the minimum wage is a pay loss for those that have worked to achieve their status in the workplace.

Minimum wage jobs were not meant to be permanent employment but rather a stepping stone for high school or college students, said Schooley.

As Russian forces move across Ukraine in an effort to take control of the region, the three candidates agree that the action stems from unwillingness of the Obama administration to take a firm stand in foreign affairs.

Shuster said that the Obama administration has been lax in addressing matters taking place in Ukraine, Syria, Iran, North Korea and other foreign countries, which has led to the takeover of Crimea and the death of the U.S. ambassador and three others in Benghazi.

“The president has diminished America’s standing in the world,” he said. “[Terrorists] killed our U.S. ambassador and three other people, and we have had no response at all.

The president’s “line in the sand” in Syria, too, resulted in the Syrians “walking all over the U.S.,” added Shuster.

“That’s what is creating the situation in Ukraine,” he said. “Russians know this president isn’t going to react.

The U.S. could strengthen its standing with the development of its natural gas and oil resources that would end its dependence and that of its allies on countries that do not share their interests.

Shuster said he fears that without a strong military, the lessening of dependence on foreign oil and a respected administration, the world will continue to see Putin, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei continue to overtake independent countries and build nuclear weapons.

Halvorson said a search-and-rescue mission needed to be enacted when it was learned of the attack in Benghazi. “America is weak,” he said.

Five days prior to the Russian takeover of Crimea, U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel announced that the U.S. would cut its troop strength to pre-World War II strength, a measure that emboldened Putin, said Halvorson.

“[The message was] that America did not have the will to protect itself around the world,” he said.

Halvorson said that Congress must take control of the debt as it contributes to the nation’s perceived weakness.

Schooley said the weakness of America is not only prevalent around the world, but also on U.S. soil.

“We are weak, and our government is weak,” he said.

Most Americans are willing to offer aid to other countries, but do not favor putting troops on the ground, said Schooley, adding that he is not knowledgeable of national security information that would be available to him as a member of Congress to offer an informed response.

“I think we should help people wherever possible,” he said.

Luigie posted at 7:09 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Coal production is at the highest national rate in over 20 years and not many new jobs have been created due to the fact that the coal industry does not want more workers it just wants to blow the top off of mountains and use large equipment to remove the coal.

Art is also wrong about the size of the government. The economical problem is due to tax cuts that where not structured to make jobs, deregulation that did not create competing industry just monopolies and higher prices, and unregulated privatization, which created fewer jobs at lower pay. All of these failures have helped to send our jobs overseas while placing larger profits in the pockets of the few at our expense.

An energy led recovery has been the fantasy for over 30 years all that happens is that the energy goes to world market does not create jobs here and does not bring down the price of energy to the majority. Check the price of heating fuel and gasoline. Profits go up for the corporations and the cost of living goes up for us.

Schooley Still has not seen that the reason for coal-powered plants being closed is cheaper cleaner natural gas; new regulations or not the power producers will be using natural gas for the reasons mentioned.

Raising the minimum wage is a sad way to to bring up the standard of living in America; however when 70 percent of the jobs in America are minimum wage and corporate profits continue to grow at break-neck speeds as wages stand still or demise it must be done along with the right to unionize if these people are ever to be removed from the need of public support.

Every idea that these three guys have is out dated or proven to be wrong-headed due to policy failure through years of use. Their other ideas lead to wars and cold war- era military costs that we can no longer afford. This is not leadership it is a race to the end of America as we know it today or yesterday when both sides of the isle looked out for the nations well being and not to their rich contributors for orders.

Jobs programs gentlemen geared to create an internal economy is the answer to our needs.

Please look at Alanna Hartzok at least she has new ideas that need to be seen by the public.
