
MK Yogev: Absorption center closure near Jerusalem could be ‘Holyland: The Sequel'

The State Comptroller should investigate the closure of the absorption center in  Mevaseret Zion and its sale to private developers, Knesset Immigration,  Absorption and Diaspora Affairs Committee chairman Yoel Razbozov (Yesh Atid)  said Monday.

The land on which the largest absorption center in Israel,  with over 1,000 residents, stands in the community near Jerusalem, and was  bought with donations to the Jewish Agency, which transferred its ownership to  its workers’ pension fund.

The Immigration and Absorption Ministry rented  the center since 2009 with a lease that ends this year.

The Jewish Agency  pension fund is selling the land for a minimum of NIS 295 million to build a  14,000 m. apartment complex.

Razbozov vowed to stop the absorption  center’s sale to “real estate sharks” and any harm to immigrants.

MK  Nissim Ze’ev (Shas) brought an advertisement from a local Mevaseret Zion  newspaper calling for people to buy apartments at the site of the absorption  center.

“How can it be that the tender is announced and the apartments  for sale are advertised on the same day? Someone cheated,” Ze’ev  said.

MK Mordechai Yogev (Bayit Yehudi)  called for the police to investigate, saying the incident is borderline criminal  and even worse than the Holyland corruption case, for which former prime  minister Ehud Olmert was sentenced to six years in prison.

“If the  absorption center closes, we need to be sure that none of the immigrants leave  without somewhere to go,” Yogev added.

Mevaseret Zion Immigration & Absorption Committee Member Jeremy Saltan pointed out that “the land was donated  by American Jews to the Jewish Agency, not for a real estate project. Now the  land has switched hands to their pension fund, they are looking for a minimum of  NIS 295m. for the property.

“Something doesn’t smell right, it is  possible we are talking about ‘Holyland: The Sequel,’” he said.

Saltan  also responded to Immigration and Absorption Ministry representatives who said  they do not have open slots in other centers and there is no plan to build new  ones.

“What does it say about the State of Israel that we are closing  down the largest absorption center in the country? What are we going to do with  the impending aliya from the Ukraine and France?” he asked.

Mevaseret  Mayor Yoram Shimon said the municipality will do all it can to ensure the  immigrants aren’t harmed, but at the same time it has an interest in making a  change.

Jewish Agency deputy director-general Ayelet Shiloh Tamir  said the immigrants should leave the center gradually to permanent housing, as  their right to live in the center runs out.

No representatives of the  pension fund attended the meeting, but Tamir said it is an independent body  whose members are Jewish Agency retirees, and is responsible for the pensions of  its members.

“Donors gave for our activities but also for our salaries,” she said.

According to Schwartz, the Jewish Agency owns half of the stock, but does not control the fund as it only holds two of nine seats on the board of directors.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
