
SEOUL, May 20 (Yonhap) -- The ruling Saenuri Party adopted a resolution Tuesday claiming responsibility for the Sewol ferry disaster and vowing utmost efforts to prevent a similar tragedy.

The resolution, adopted during a general meeting of party lawmakers, also contained an apology for the disaster that has left more than 300 people dead or missing.

"The ruling party in charge of state affairs will be the first to repent and reflect on its wrongdoing," the resolution said. "As lawmakers who should keep a watch on the government, hold it in check and thoroughly screen the budget, we apologize to the public for neglecting our duties."

   The party pledged in the resolution to restore the public's confidence in politics by creating a National Assembly that cares only for the people. It also vowed to repent to prevent a similar tragedy from happening again.

Specific measures include the establishment of a legislative system that prioritizes issues close to people's everyday lives, the establishment of a permanent system to keep watch over the government and hold it in check, and a thorough examination of safety-related budgets.

Following up on President Park Geun-hye's call for a fact-finding committee to look into all suspicions surrounding the ferry disaster, ruling party floor leader Lee One-koo said he would push to enact a special law authorizing its establishment in tandem with opposition parties.

The committee would include members of the government, the ruling and opposition parties, outside experts and, if necessary, families of the victims, he said.

The floor leader also called for amendments to the Government Officials Act and the Government Organization Act, citing the need to end corrupt practices in officialdom that are seen to have contributed to the disaster. The amendments would also be aimed at making the government's disaster response system more effective.

The 6,825-ton ferry Sewol sank off the country's southwest coast on April 16, carrying an estimated 476 passengers on board. Most of those dead or missing were students from a high school near Seoul on a school field trip to the southern resort island of Jeju.
