
Many Democats cheer; Republican McLane urges 'reconcilliation'

A federal judge's ruling that overturns Oregon's voter-approved ban on gay marriage brought a flood of reaction, with Democrat supporters cheering the decision and a Powell Butte Republican lawmaker calling for a continued "process of reconciliation ... with respect for each other."

STATEMENT FROM ATTORNEY GENERAL ROSENBLUM ON THE U.S. DISTRICT COURT’S RULING ON THE OCCASION OF GEIGER ET AL.

This is an historic day for our state. I am delighted that Judge Michael McShane struck down Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage, finding no legitimate state purpose justifies the preclusion of gay and lesbian couples from civil marriage. The U.S. District Court concluded, as I did in the position I took on behalf of the state defendants, that Oregon's constitutional ban is not defensible under the United States Constitution’s Equal Protection Clause.

I did not take lightly my decision not to defend the Oregon constitution in this matter. That is why we presented the court with all of the arguments we were aware of that had been made in other jurisdictions. And that’s why my office carefully explained in a lengthy brief and at oral argument why making those arguments in this case would have been at odds with our oath to defend the United States Constitution.

Today's decisive ruling shows that the U.S. District Court also considered these arguments and rejected them. The ruling affirms our state's commitment to equal protection under the law. It says, plainly and simply, that under the supreme law of the land, it is not okay to deny same-sex couples in Oregon the same right to marry that is given to opposite-sex couples.

SALEM – State Treasurer Ted Wheeler released the following statement today after U.S. District Judge Michael McShane cleared the way for same-sex marriage in Oregon.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
