
Congress's Working Committee meeting must yield more than the usual platitudes for there can be no sharper alarm bell than its performance in 2014's polls — the worst ever in its history, landing it an abysmal 44 seats. Facing challenges,  Congress usually mouths cliches like 'We must introspect', last heard after its Delhi assembly rout. But now, Congress needs to do much more than contemplate its navel. It needs a sharp, serious ideological reboot, one that aligns it with contemporary India. Currently it is totally out of touch.

There are three core areas Congress must entirely rework. The first is patronage politics, manifest in handouts and doles. It has been rightly condemned by Congress heavyweight Kamal Nath, one of the few party members to retain his seat. Kamal Nath joins critics of schemes like MGNREGA and food security, challenged by aspirational voters demanding sustained growth over occasional crumbs. Patronage politics hurts Congress internally as well, as party functions and functionaries are decided by proximity to power rather than ability or need. This makes Congress resemble one of its own welfare schemes, obese with vested interests, riddled with corruption and debts.

The second is Congress's class attitudes, totally off the mark. As prices soared, the party tried guilt-tripping the middle class — then home minister P Chidambaram asking why this section was complaining when it could spend on frivolities like ice cream. Later, Congressmen like Mani Shankar Aiyar made disparaging remarks about Narendra Modi's economically challenged background, only earning NaMo greater popular support. In today's India class is a flexible term. The poor are determined to rise while the middle class is guilt-free about being middle class. Congress must learn deriding either doesn't work.

The third area is dynasty, Congress's toughest Achilles heel. Being controlled by one family — with seemingly little to offer voters other than glories of a faded past — makes Congress appear slavishly feudal. As contemporary India vigorously challenges hierarchies, Congress's dynasty-fixation looks archaic. Rahul Gandhi's vague, meandering style must be replaced with merit-based leaders who can shape a New Congress — akin to New Labour emerging in a changing Britain, infused with Anthony Giddens's ideas and Tony Blair's energy. Without evolving thus, Congress will have only one decision to make — whether death by dynasty is worth it. Twenty-first century India is looking to the future, not the past.
