
California Chrome will try to become the 12th Triple Crown winner – the first since Affirmed swept the series in 1978 – in the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, June 7. The colt will walk the shedrow Pimlico at 7 a.m. Monday and ship from the Preakness Stakes Barn at Pimlico to Belmont Park at 6 a.m. Tuesday morning.

Sherman said he thinks his colt can complete the sweep in the 1 1/2-mile Belmont Stakes, which has stopped 11 horses that won the Derby and Preakness since Affirmed. A 12th Derby-Preakness winner, I’ll Have Another in 2012, was found to be injured the day before the Belmont Stakes and was scratched.

Sherman said California Chrome, a winner of six straight races, should be able to handle the Belmont distance.

However, he said jockey Victor Espinoza will have to be careful in the Belmont.

Much like he did after the Derby, Sherman, 77, said he will return to his California home Monday to tend to his stable based at Los Alamitos, while his son and assistant trainer, Alan, manages California Chrome for the next two weeks. Art Sherman said he expects to travel to New York about a week before the Belmont Stakes.

During a meeting with the media outside the stakes barn, Sherman said the horse came out of the race well, that he is in favor of lengthening the time between the Kentucky Derby and the Belmont Stakes from five to nine weeks, and that he expects the colt’s owners, Steven Coburn and Perry Martin, to question New York’s rule against the use of nasal strips used to improve breathing by opening the nasal passages.

Sherman was surprised to learn that New York State does not allow nasal strips and said it might present a problem.

By late morning, the New York State Gaming Commission issued a statement saying that it is up to the stewards to approve the use to nasal strips.

“Neither the New York State Gaming Commission nor the Stewards at the New York Racing Association have received a request to use nasal strips in the June 7 Belmont Stakes.

“If a request to use nasal strips is made, the decision on whether to permit them or not will be fully evaluated and determined by the Stewards.

“This is in accordance with the Commission's Thoroughbred Rule 4033.8, which states: "Only equipment specifically approved by the stewards shall be worn or carried by a jockey or a horse in a race."

California Chrome’s chestnut coat shone in the morning sun a dozen or so hours after he posted a 1 1/2-length victory over Ride On Curlin in the Middle Jewel of the Triple Crown. Sherman said the horse seemed fine and was pulling Alan as they walked the shedrow.

Under Espinoza, California Chrome stalked the pace for six furlongs, moved to the front in the second turn and scooted away from the others at the top of the stretch.

The gap between the Preakness and the Belmont is three weeks and Sherman said it’s time that the Triple Crown schedule is adjusted.

“I think they should change that rule and make it to where it’s about a nine-week program,” he said. “I think you’d have a lot more shooters in that race (the Preakness). You’d have a lot more Derby horses that would try it. Now you only get two or three Derby horses that go.

And Sherman said he is favor of prohibiting fresh horses from entering the series after the Derby. It’s now quite common for horses that were beaten in the Derby to skip the Preakness and run in the Belmont.

RIDE ON CURLIN – Daniel Dougherty’s Ride On Curlin walked the shedrow for 40 minutes in the Preakness Stakes Barn with trainer Billy Gowan Sunday morning following his solid second-place performance behind California Chrome in the Middle Jewel of the Triple Crown.

Gowan said he will continue his Triple Crown tour at Belmont Park to try Derby and Preakness winner California Chrome one more time in the Belmont Stakes. He will attempt to accomplish the same feat his dam’s (Magical Ride) grandsire, Victory Gallop achieved in 1998 when he upset Real Quiet’s Triple Crown bid.

The son of Curlin will remain at Pimlico until Tuesday, when he is scheduled to board a van bound for Belmont Park, along with the Derby and Preakness winner. Under new rider Joel Rosario, Ride On Curlin came from last out of the 10-post and passed the entire field except California Chrome. The losing margin was a diminishing 1 ½ lengths.

The Preakness was the 11th career start for Ride On Curlin, a bargain basement buy at $25,000 for former Louisville furniture chain store dealer Daniel Dougherty.  Still seeking his first stakes victory, Ride On Curlin is Dougherty’s only horse in training and the star of Gowan’s four-horse stable. Gowan picked out the colt in the 2012 Keeneland September Sale.

Gowan said it’s been “great fun” being part of this entire Triple Crown scenario.

SOCIAL INCLUSION:  Rontos Racing Stable Corp.’s Social Inclusion emerged from his third-place finish in Saturday’s Preakness Stakes (G1) in good order.

“He ate everything and he’s happy. He didn’t show that he was tired at all,” Rontos Racing’s Ron Sanchez said Sunday morning.

Social Inclusion is scheduled to remain at Pimlico until Friday before shipping to Belmont Park for a probable start in the Belmont Stakes (G1) on June 7.

The 3-year-old son of Pioneerof the Nile, who made only his fourth career start in the Preakness, was regarded as the likely pacesetter in the Middle Jewel of the Triple Crown. However, the Manny Azpurua-trained colt was forced to race off the pace after experiencing early trouble.

Wide on the backstretch, Social Inclusion pulled alongside California Chrome leaving the backstretch and the pair swept around tiring pacesetter Pablo Del Monte on the turn before entering the stretch, where California Chrome kicked away to victory. Social Inclusion tired but held on to third money.

GENERAL A ROD: Trainer Mike Maker said that General A Rod came out of his fourth-place Preakness finish “in good shape” but couldn’t make a definitive statement about the colt’s chances of being only the third horse to run in all three Triple Crown events this year (California Chrome and Ride On Curlin are confirmed for the Belmont Stakes).

Jack Wolf, managing partner of Starlight Racing, said Sunday morning that his group will confer with representatives from co-owner Skychai Racing later this week and decide on the colt’s future.

The son of Roman Ruler was only a head from finishing third in the Preakness behind show finisher Social Inclusion. The Gulfstream Park Derby winner finished eight lengths behind Preakness winner California Chrome.

RING WEEKEND: Trainer Graham Motion was “quite happy” with the way St. Elias Stable and West Point Thoroughbreds’ Ring Weekend came out of his troubled fifth-place finish in Saturday’s Preakness.

The Tampa Bay Derby winner (G2) bumped with Bayern after the start and had to be steadied going into the first turn.

No decision has been made concerning Ring Weekend’s next start.

Motion was impressed with California Chrome’s performance.

“I think he handled everything so well. He’s a real pro. He’s a good enough horse that he doesn’t get himself in trouble. Perhaps, that’s the kind of horse we need to have a Triple Crown winner,” Motion said.

PABLO DEL MONTE – Trainer Wesley Ward said his homebred colt Pablo Del Monte was headed home to Kentucky Sunday, where he will be freshened for a summer campaign.

Under jockey Jeffrey Sanchez, Pablo Del Monte led the field through six furlongs in 1:11.06, before being overtaken and finishing sixth.

Ward said he and his co-owners, Mrs. John Magnier, Michael Tabor and Derrick Smith, talked about aiming their colt to middle distance type races of seven furlongs and a mile. He said that after Pablo Del Monte returns from some time off, he will be prepared for the seven-furlong King’s Bishop (G1) at Saratoga Race Course.

DYNAMIC IMPACT – John Oxley’s Dynamic Impact, who finished seventh in Saturday’s Preakness, was boarded on a van bound for Baltimore-Washington International Airport for an early Sunday morning flight to Louisville, Ky.

KID CRUZ – Vina Del Mar Thoroughbreds and Black Swan Stable’s Kid Cruz came out of his eighth-place Preakness finish in good shape and was boarded on a van headed home to Belmont Park shortly after 6 a.m. Sunday morning.

Whether that’s against California Chrome in the Belmont Stakes in three weeks is still an uncertainty, Rice said.

“I’d say we’re about 50-50 right now,” said the first woman to ever win a Saratoga Race Course training title. No woman trainer has ever won a Triple Crown race.

Rice said she would meet with the colt’s owners   sometime soon and make a final determination.

Kid Cruz has had only six career starts, three of them victories, but Rice is confident that the son of 1999 Belmont Stakes winner Lemon Drop Kid has his best races in front of him.

BAYERN – Kaleem Shah’s Bayern, who finished ninth in Saturday’s Preakness, boarded an early Sunday morning flight to Louisville, Ky.

RIA ANTONIA – Christopher Dunn and Loooch Racing Stable’s Ria Antonia exited from her last-place finish in Saturday’s Preakness in good health.

Ria Antonia, the only filly in the 10-horse field, was boarded on a Tex Sutton flight to Louisville, Ky. early Sunday morning.
