
MANILA, Philippines - The House of Representatives will focus on legislation rather than involving itself in various investigations into the pork barrel fund scam that implicated several lawmakers, Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr. said yesterday.

Belmonte said the Senate Blue Ribbon committee is already looking into the corruption scandal, including the affidavit of alleged pork barrel scam operator Janet Lim-Napoles, while the Department of Justice and the Office of the Ombudsman are also conducting separate investigations.

Of the 289 House members, only 18 are mentioned in the list of lawmakers supposedly involved in the scam, including opposition members.

“With the backing of the leadership, the House will leave this to the Senate and the Office of the Ombudsman and concentrate on our work,” Belmonte said.

He said the chamber will not be distracted by the scandal as there are many urgent socio-economic bills pending.

The Senate, for its part, has deferred the hearing on the pork barrel issue in an attempt to avoid embarrassing the country before world leaders attending the World Economic Forum (WEF) this week.

Sen. Sergio Osmeña III, vice chairman of the Senate Blue Ribbon committee, said the panel will set another date next week after the WEF-East Asia has concluded.

“We don’t want to embarrass our country further by washing our dirty linen while the WEF is happening next door,” Osmeña said.

He said the decision to postpone the hearing came after they met with Justice Secretary Leila de Lima last Thursday at the Senate.

He said the scandal paralyzed the legislative mill with the lawmakers themselves getting involved.

“Public trust has eroded and we can see that it seems the Senate has been paralyzed and we cannot even hear any of the senators speaking up, their moral ground has been eroded from under their feet,” Angara said.

“What’s the result? It’s a national paralysis. We have sacrificed our national reform agenda,” he said.

Some lawmakers, however, wanted to pursue the investigation.
