
MANILA, Philippines — Senator Joseph Victor "JV" Ejercito's name should not have been included in the list of those allegedly involved in the "pork barrel" scam, Janet Lim Napoles' camp said.

The suspected congressional funds scam mastermind's lawyer, Bruce Rivera, said in a television report that the encoder made a mistake in tagging Ejercito, half-brother of principal plunder respondent Jinggoy Estrada.

"Si Mrs. Napoles mismo, na-shock siya. 'Uy bakit nandito ang pangalan ni Senator JV? Tanggalin n'yo 'to," Rivera said in a statement aired over ABS-CBN.

Napoles' camp also apologized to Ejercito for the error.

"Kami po ay humihingi ng patawad kay Senator JV Ejercito kasi po talaga naman wala po siya sa listahan," Rivera added.

Ejercito's name appeared in the signed list submitted by the Department of Justice to the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee as well as the near-identical list submitted by rehabilitation czar Panfilo Lacson. Both lists were released by the Senate panel to the media.

Earlier, Ejercito has denied having transactions with Napoles as a former San Juan representative.

"I do not know Napoles. I appeared in the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee hearing and I was never mentioned ever even by (Benhur) Luy," Ejercito said in previoius reports.

Ejercito also said in a television interview that "damage has been done" even with Napoles' apology in place. He also mulls filing charges against Napoles.

Feel vindicated that Napoles camp apologized for their error of including me on the "list". Those who released should be more responsible.

Among the signatories in the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee's report on the Priority Development Assistance Funds scam, Ejercito admitted he was rebuked by Jinggoy and their father, former President Joseph Estrada.

"Last week, hindi na naman kami nagkaunawaan at nagalit na naman ang aking kapatid," he said in a previous radio interview.

"Sabi nya, nagpapapogi lang ako at his expense," Ejercito added.
