
MASVINGO Provincial Affairs Minister, Kudakwashe Bhasikiti, has  banned  the country’s “scandalous” media from visiting the Tokwe-Mukosi  flood disaster  victims, accusing the press of falsifying information on  the plight of the  troubled villagers.

Bhasikiti told a group of Harare-based journalists at the weekend  that  they were not welcome to Chingwizi camp which has provided  temporary  shelter to affected villagers.

“We are getting journalists becoming so scandalous and mischievous to   the extent of even saying the whole flooding of Tokwe-Mukosi was  artificial …  that (the disaster) was a creation of government,”  Bhasikiti told the scribes  who had visited his offices on their way to  Chingwizi.

He continued: “If we have such journalists who can say anything, who  can  manufacture and publicise anything for reasons best known to  themselves l think  that we would be losing the focus and thrust of good  journalism."

Nearly 3,000 families were evacuated from the disaster area in  February  this year after heavy flooding caused by the partial collapse  of the  Tokwe-Mukosi dam wall washed away their homes, crops and other  valuables.

The villagers have since been accommodated at the crowded Chingwizi   holding camp, the majority refusing relocation to new plots until  government makes  good promises to compensate.

Their dire plight, reported across the world, has been characterised  by  sheer desperation and a feeling of neglect by a government that has  failed to  meet cash pledges offered as pay-off for losing their homes.

But last Friday, an attempt to visit the camp by a group of  journalists  from five mainstream media elicited strong resentment from  Bhasikiti.

The journalists, among them reporters from the ZBC, were accompanied  by  a group of children who had raised some donations which they  intended to donate  to kids at Chingwizi.

A local NGO, the Zimbabwe National Council for Welfare of Children,  was  also part of the group which included children from ZBC’s Kidznet  unit.

During the stopover at his provincial offices, Bhasikiti grabbed the   donations, insisting he would deliver them himself as provincial head.

He said the journalists and the rest of the group must be content  with  leaving the donated goods at his provincial offices where they  would be added  to other donated goods awaiting delivery to Chingwizi.

‘l have already indicated that this is coming from children,” he said.

“It touches me so much that l would want to physically go and hand  them  over and tell the children that it’s coming from your fellow  children who were  quite moved and touched by your plight.

Asked if the ban also involved journalists from the generally   pro-government ZBC, Bhasikiti said: “You came as a team of journalist so  there  was no need of singling out any because that will not be proper.

Bhasikiti said the story of Tokwe-Mukosi had been reported enough  adding  any journalist who felt they had something new to say should go  through his  provincial office’s press department which would facilitate  a guided tour of  the camp.

This was not the first time Bhasikiti has displayed antagonism towards  prospective visitors to Chingwizi.
