
Retired UC Irvine biosciences professor Stuart Krassner and his wife, Liza, chief administrative officer for public health at UCI, are 28-year residents of University Hills, where they live with their two teenage sons. There are about 1,230 households in the development.

• Homes: 989 for-sale homes and 240 rental units.

• Residents: 1,229 households. UCI employs over 1,100 faculty and 9,400 staff.

• New construction: 32 more houses on Ochoa Court and Rowland Court. They will be available this fall. This summer, 45 houses and 120 town-home style apartments will break ground.

• Purpose: To recruit high quality faculty who might otherwise decline a job offer because of high housing costs.

Anne Walthall, professor of Japanese history, was teaching at the University of Utah when she was recruited to UC Irvine 23 years ago.

It was the faculty housing at UCI’s University Hills that enabled her to accept the job and move to Orange County. “At that point, it was the only place I could’ve afforded to live,” Walthall said.

She lives in one of the townhouses. They were built in the earlier phases of the 254-acre University Hills spread, which has a variety of living options including apartments, condos, single-family homes and paired homes that share a wall. Altogether, about 1,230 households live in University Hills’ for-sale homes or rentals.

Since its founding 30 years ago, University Hills has existed to help UCI recruit and retain high-quality faculty. It’s a way to compensate for high Orange County housing costs that can keep a recruit from accepting a job at the university.

An estimated 65 percent of UCI’s 1,100-plus faculty lives in University Hills, said Jane Laning, chief executive of the nonprofit Irvine Campus Housing Authority, which develops and manages University Hills for the UC Board of Regents. Some of UCI’s 9,100 staff lives there as well.

Prices for new and existing homes in University Hills range from $171 to $278 per square foot. Houses being built now range from 1,700 square feet to 2,450 square feet. As an example, a new 1,700-square-foot single-family house might cost $382,000. Condos start at $200,000 for 800 square feet. Homebuyers can get loans through the University of California Mortgage Origination Program.

“It has been terrific for recruitment,” said Mark Warschauer, professor and associate dean of education. “I’ve recruited faculty from everywhere,” he said.

“We develop a short list and invite each candidate out for a day or two,” he said. “They give a talk and meet with faculty, administrators and students.” Then they tour University Hills. If there is time, one of the faculty hosts a reception for the recruit at their University Hills home. That way the candidate can get an idea of what the homes are like and what it’s like to live there.

About 25 to 35 existing houses are for sale each year, but there is more demand than houses available. It can take a year for faculty to get a house in University Hills. Some people live in the apartments while waiting to buy a house. People also live in the apartments long-term.

University Hills houses sell for less than Orange County’s median of about $570,000 – in Irvine, it’s about $763,000, according to Zillow – because UC Board of Regents owns the land and leases it to the housing authority. To keep prices moderate, there is a cap on the amount that a home appreciates.

Homes are sold to other UCI employees through a priority system.

First priority is assigned to academic senate members, which includes professors, associate professors and assistant professors, and university senior managers. Second priority goes to academic staff, which includes lecturers, researchers and postdoctoral students.

The priority system includes residents who may want to move into a different home to accommodate a growing family or for any number of reasons.

There are drawbacks to University Hills. Children can’t inherit a home, for example. The owner has to be a UCI employee. If the homeowner is no longer employed at UCI, the resident has to move. A retired UCI employee can continue to live in University Hills.

University Hills homes also aren’t investments.

“If you’re here to make money on your property, you’re in the wrong place,” said Liza Krassner, who lives with her husband Stuart Krassner, a retired biosciences professor and one of the first 100 hires at UCI. Liza is chief administrative officer for public health at UCI.

In University Hills’ early days, there was a concern that people wouldn’t move there, that it would be a hard sell, Laning said. “That turned around very quickly,” she said. Laning has been working for Irvine Campus Housing Authority since 1987 and became its fourth chief executive in 2011.

There are about 200 people in the first priority category to buy a house or resale. The list includes candidates who might be offered a job. Not everyone who is on the list buys a home, Laning said. The list doesn’t include existing residents who might want to buy a different home at University Hills.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Register publications without any notification or payment.
