
The Minnesota Court of Appeals has affirmed a city plan to demolish a Maryland Avenue duplex owned by Raven Financial, which bought the property in 2011.

The duplex nevertheless remains at the center of the landlord's federal complaint against St. Paul, a state housing agency and the Payne-Phalen District 5 Planning Council, one of a number of legal complaints alleging that city code enforcement hurts rather than helps low-income renters by reducing the amount of affordable housing in St. Paul.

Raven owns or holds legal interest in 16 housing units at seven St. Paul properties, most of them sold to new owners under contract for deed, according to their attorney. Most of the apartments are in East Side neighborhoods with a high percentage of low-income renters.

Raven, run by the husband-and-wife team of Kevin and Katie Riley, acquired 758 Maryland Ave. when it was listed as a "Category II" building under the city's housing codes -- an unoccupied building with multiple housing or building-code violations. It had been vacant since 2007, according to court documents.

At the time, the Department of Safety and Inspections listed more than 40 problems -- building, electrical, plumbing and heating -- before it could be occupied. After a subsequent inspection, the department declared the duplex a "nuisance property" in December 2012 and sent Raven Financial an order to fix the issues, with the expectation it would otherwise be torn down.

City officials estimated repairs would cost $45,000. Raven later showed the city a bank statement with $15,000 in dedicated funds and two contractor estimates for $16,000. One of the estimates did not include plumbing costs, and the other did not show a construction timeline, according to court documents.

During a March 2013 hearing before the St. Paul City Council, council members noted that Raven had yet to put down a $5,000 performance deposit and said the bids did not constitute formal work plans. They voted 7-0 to order the building demolished within 15 days.

Mary Kaye, the company's property manager at the time, said that a retired building inspector had estimated the property might need as little as $5,000 to $16,000 in total repairs, and that her attempts to file the performance bond had been rejected by a city clerk because of the demolition orders. A potential new owner, Ker Moua, also has expressed interest in the property.

Calling the council ruling an unreasonable financial hardship, Raven Financial appealed the demolition decision in court.

Judge Carol Hooten wrote the Court of Appeals decision issued Monday on behalf of the three-judge panel: "Raven contends that the city's decision is oppressive and unreasonable because the demolition of the duplex would cause it economic loss. But the record establishes that the city was more than willing to allow Raven to rehabilitate the duplex so long as Raven met certain conditions."

"Raven failed to meet those conditions," the decision continues. "Any economic loss incurred by Raven is speculative and due to its own failure to comply with the city's reasonable conditions for rehabilitation. Under these circumstances, we conclude that the city's decision to demolish the duplex was neither unreasonable nor oppressive."

Attorney John Shoemaker, who represents Raven Financial, said the appeals court traditionally defers to cities on housing decisions.

"They're not going to reverse a decision by the city council," Shoemaker said. "It's an uphill battle. Over the years, there's been only a handful of reversals."

In November, the Rileys filed a separate complaint with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development saying the city demanded excessive improvements at the Maryland Avenue property and other Raven Financial rentals.

The complaint, authored by Shoemaker, was filed against the city, the Minnesota Housing Finance Agency and the Payne-Phalen District 5 Planning Council, which has pressured the city to take a more active stance against "absentee" landlords who own eyesore properties.

The complaint also maintains that as a recipient and distributor of federal housing funds, the Minnesota Housing Finance Agency has a responsibility to ensure that St. Paul's code requirements are not hurting low-income residents by reducing the amount of affordable housing stock. Shoemaker said he plans to amend the complaint to include Raven's entire portfolio.

St. Paul officials said they are pleased with the state Court of Appeals ruling.

"It supports St. Paul's continued commitment to ensuring safe, sanitary and affordable rental housing throughout the community," said Sara Grewing, St. Paul city attorney.

As for demolition of the property, the city is reviewing its options before moving forward.

Frederick Melo can be reached at 651-228-2172. Follow him at twitter.com/FrederickMelo .
