
SPRINGFIELD - Doling out the maximum punishment allowed under state law, a judge Monday sentenced David Chalue to three consecutive life sentences, without the possibility of parole, for the killing of three Pittsfield men in 2011.

"The victims were tortured, murdered and mutilated in a way that is depraved," said Hampden Superior Court Judge C. Jeffrey Kinder.

Chalue was convicted on Friday of three counts each of first-degree murder, kidnapping and witness intimidation.

Before being sentenced, Chalue, wearing gray jail issued clothing and his hands in cuffs, sat quietly listening with little outward emotion to victim impact statements from the friends and family of the victims -- David Glasser, Edward Frampton and Robert Chadwell.

In a statement read by Berkshire District Attorney David F. Capeless, Chadwell's daughter, Ashleye Hall, said Chalue was "evil." She said he deserved to suffer and that she hoped he spent the rest of his life behind bars.

"It makes my heart hurt," she said of losing her father. "It shattered my life."

Carol Chadwell Smith, Robert Chadwell's sister, thanked the jury and asked the judge to bring closure in the family by giving Chalue the maximum sentence.

Erin Forbush, who works for ServiceNet, an agency that provides support to people with developmental disabilities, spoke on behalf of Frampton. She was close to Frampton, a client who she said had a fun and quirky sense of humor.

"Ed's death leaves a very personal loss for all who loved him and to those that were touched by Ed's love and humor," she said, going on to say that he was also an advocate for the developmentally disabled. His death was a loss for advocacy and education, she said.

Capeless said the crimes were a "brutal assault" on the victims and the justice system and deplored Chalue's "cowardly and loathsome display" by committing the crimes and then bragging about it.

He asked the court to show no more mercy in sentencing than Chalue showed the victims and to give him consecutive life sentences for the three murders and nine to 10 years on the other charges.

Defense attorney Donald W. Frank said his client "is not a monster," and asked for concurrent life sentences.

He said Chalue wanted to express his condolences for the victims and apologized to his own family. Chalue, through his lawyer, told his children and family that although he doesn't agree with the verdict, he respects the judicial process and asked them to do the same.

Massachusetts State Trooper William Scott, who worked on the case and knew Glasser, said he didn't "lie, cheat or steal" and "lost his life living this creed."

Chalue, 47, of North Adams, was accused of taking part in the kidnapping and murder of the three men in August 2011, along with Adam Lee Hall and Caius Veiovis.

Hall, 37, of Peru, was convicted in February on multiple counts of murder and kidnapping in three separate incidents from 2009 through 2011. Veiovis, 32, of Pittsfield, remains in jail without bail. His trial is scheduled for September.

In handing down the sentence, Kinder said the crimes struck "at the very core of our system of justice," noting that Glasser was killed to keep him from testifying against Hall in another case and that the other two men were potential witnesses to the kidnapping of Glasser.

He sentenced Chalue to serve three consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole at the Massachusetts Correctional Institution at Cedar Junction on the first-degree murder charges. He also gave Chalue concurrent 8- to 10-year sentences on the other charges.

Chalue's family shouted out that they love him as he was led out of the courtroom.

After the sentencing, Capeless said he was glad the judge imposed the consecutive life sentences.

"Obviously it is not going to bring back David Glasser, Ed Frampton or Robert Chadwell. It won't even bring closure to their families, something they longed for, but it is justice," he said. "And it is the most we can ask for."

He said he was looking forward to the trial of Veiovis in September.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Click the login link below to sign in with or to set up a Disqus account or to access your social networking account. When you do, your comment should be posted immediately, provided it meets the guidelines. ( What are the guidelines? .) Report abuse by flagging a comment (mouse over the comment). Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion of The Berkshire Eagle. So keep it civil.
