
Tuesday, May 20, 2014 - Lahore—Federal Minister for Railways Khawaja Saad Rafique has said that railways had demand Rs 50 billion as Public Sector Development Programme for next financial year of 2014-15 but Ministry Of Finance And Planning had indicated that railways may be allocated Rs 38 billion in this head but we hope that Prime Minister And Finance Minister both would intervene and railways funds would be enhanced in forthcoming budget. Minister for Railways stated this, while talking to journalists, after inaugurating an Engine Shed at railways workshops here on Monday.

He said ministry of railways would utilise 80 percent PSDP funds for the completion of ongoing projects and 20 percent would be reserved for new projects. We are planning to import more 75 more locomotives from China in the next phase and both local and international firms who would qualify the bids for locomotives, they would arrange 85 percent funds with the support of banks, while railways would pay 15 percent funds from PSDP.

He assured that present government would deliver relief rather than more problems for the next regime. Federal Minister said that he had directed to the concerned officials that they would install CCTVs and arrange fencing and proper lighting system in engine shed to control the corruption.

NTS exams to fill the 850 seats in railways police. He also gave assurance that some 550 railways workers, who were working on contract for last two years, would soon get a good news. He said railways have arranged Rs 630 million for the outstanding amount of TA/DA to the workers through their own resources which was the proof that railways income was improving gradually.

To a query, Saad Rafique said that if Imran Khan has some reservations about the results of previous elections, he should resolve the issue in courts, parliament and through dialogue. He said that Imran Khan should visit in Khyber Pakhtoonkhwa and settle the public complaints against PTI government and if Imran Khan would fail to deliver the relief to the common people, they would reject him in the next elections. He said that federal government would increase the salaries of employees according to available resources in the coming budget.

Earlier Tariq Khan, Chief Mechanical Engineer, while giving the briefing, said that ET workshops was set-up in 1968 over the 28 acres piece of land and we would repair and maintain the newly locomotives in the workshop premises. He said some 60 employees were working and this workshop was renovated worth Rs 6 million. Senior railways officers and workers were also present on the occasion.
