
NAIROBI, Kenya, May 19 – The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) has petitioned the National Assembly to kick start the process of removing Attorney General Githu Muigai from office over the Anglo-Leasing payments.

In a petition addressed to the Clerk of the National Assembly, LSK says Muigai is to blame for the judgment entered in London that favoured owners of the dubious contracts that cost tax payers billions of shillings.

The petition which was signed by LSK Chairman Eric Mutua and CEO Apollo Mboya stated that the AG is responsible because he failed to appoint a suitable lawyer to defend the case, leading to the judgment.

“He delegated powers and instructions to the Solicitor General Njee Muturi to represent Kenya in the London Court while aware that the SG did not have a licence to practice law in England and Wales or to appear before the courts in England. Effectively the Government did not have legal representation and the proceedings in the court are a nullity,” the petition states.

Muigai addressed a press conference on Monday defended his office and clarified on the allegation.

President Uhuru Kenyatta has approved the payment of Sh1.4 billion for the Anglo-leasing type contracts, saying Kenya risked suffering greater losses if the money is not paid.

The LSK are simply using the opportunity to settle some scores with the AG. Why don’t they take the matter to court?? Wasn’t today the day we were to have mass action in the streets?? We need to be truthful and state the facts as they are and not twist issues to serve some political agenda.

You keep defending the indefensible, for once be on the right side of imaprtial thinking please.

Pause for a moment and ask yourself why the LSK hasn’t taken the AG to court. The fact is the accusations are not based on fact. Please read the facts of the case and you will become enlightened. I would very much like to have the real culprits apprehended. That is Justice. Right now all the politicians are doing is screaming at the top of their voices and confusing a few senseless people who can’t think for themselves.
