
Share This Story!

Brenda R. McGuire is president of WorldWide Connect and Chief Global Gal of Global Gals.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Job description: My passion is teaching people how to successfully live, work and travel the world. After living and working in six countries on four continents, I returned to Iowa, where I started WorldWide Connect. The company offers  global business effectiveness programs, cross-cultural training, global leadership development, and expatriate support to individuals and organizations around the globe. Through my travels to more than 65 countries, I have recruited a team of international experts, and together we have trained thousands of individuals and companies in more than 50 countries. In the last year I started Global Gals, which empowers  women to reach their travel dreams through workshops, retreats, cultural training and networking events.

Background: Growing up in Monroe, I always dreamed of traveling the world. While at Iowa State University, I participated in Semester at Sea, an academic around-the-world voyage. Prior to starting my own companies, I worked in the nonprofit, academic and government sectors, as well as for Fortune 500 companies. I have a bachelor of science in psychology and international relations from ISU and a master’s  in international communication from Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia.

Notable achievements: 2014 EXPY Award for exemplary global public speaking, presented by the National Association of Experts, Writers & Speakers in New York City; co-author of the book “Answering the Call,” due to be published this summer; 2011 Forty Under 40 Honoree.

Why I do what I do: I’ve been blessed to have the opportunity to experience the far corners of the  world, and my life’s goal is to encourage others to do the same. I  launched Global Gals as a legacy to my father, Harold Hagen, to help encourage other women to reach their  travel dreams, just as he encouraged me.

What I do to get away from work: I enjoy scrapbooking, spending time with family and friends and, of course, traveling for fun. I just returned from Morocco, where I explored  Marrakesh, Fes and Casablanca.

How I give back to the community: I helped Sherry Gupta start CultureALL, a Des Moines-based nonprofit that helps Iowans  learn about  world cultures. I am a cultural ambassador, former board member and volunteer with the organization.

One thing I would change about the Des Moines area: I would love to see more international and culturally diverse events, venues and activities that would draw people both locally and globally. Also, I’d like to see more focus in the business and academic communities on developing Iowa’s future global workforce.

What Iowa can do to attract more people like me: I think Iowa needs to focus on continuing to develop a global mindset and cross-cultural appreciation to attract people  from around the world.

My mentor: Some of my earliest mentors who had the greatest impact on me were my first managers at Iowa Workforce Development, Glen Howard and Gloria Cano, as well Katie Roth and my former 4-H mentor, Irma Williams. They have always been a source of inspiration, encouragement and support.

What I would do if I could do something else: I am truly living out my dreams, but if I could, I would love to fit in even more travel! There just aren’t enough days in the year for the adventures I would like to experience.

Contact info: bmcguire@ worldwide-connect.com.
