
I'm packing up, getting ready to fly out at 11 pm tonight to Sri Lanka. I fly into Colombo & then get driven to Negombo, where the tour starts. Fingers crossed there is the little guy at the airport at midnight onite holding a sign that I can ID as my lift.

i went on a HOHO bus today , and no, it's not the name of a Narre Warren bucks night bus, simply means Hop on, Hop off.  Saw loads of stuff and a great way to get an overview of the city.

The Royal palace cost over half a billion MYR to build and it's massive but there is also an undercurrent of resentment of such excess when there are so many poor and it's a developing nation.

I have only had one epic fail on the food front where I foolishly thought the prawn and noodle image would translate into a delicious reality, but a bit like the McDonald's images, not the case. The rancid pong of fish as I carried my bowl of mysterious blobs to the table had me make a quick decision that for the $4 Outlay, I could afford to abandon it surreptitiously . Other than that, food has been great, lots of Malay, Chinese, Thai & Indian food and for the less adventurous, western food.

I always viewed KL as a stopover city but it offers a lot of variety and diversity and other than peak hour, it's easy to get around and has different areas of the city. There is a strong Islamic influence throughout the architecture and combined with the sleek futuristic skyscrapers, gives the city a really eastern, exotic feel.

Everyone  says the service here is rubbish, but it's a hell of a lot better than my customer experiences in Perth and there is a 10% service fee factored into most things ( known as + +) so you don't have the dilemma of tipping and how much to tip.

Said goodbye to Finn and got all sooky, I have been fine for 5 months but now I have caught up with him, I have turned into needy deedie.  He's already booking stuff for us to do when I get back, so should be fun. He's off to Japan (again) beginning of July with a bunch of mates.

After 2 failed attempts to go up the Petronas towers (tickets sell fast and you can't book ahead) so it's a to do when I gat back at end of holiday, although admittedly, I don't really care but it's such a major landmark. So, I compensated by going up the KL Menara tower which is KL 's telecomms tower - at least it didn't wobble in the wind like the one in St Louis USA  did, not a good sensation.
