
MP Kabbara: ‘Why punish Tripoli?'

BEIRUT: Tripoli MP Mohammad Kabbara criticized authorities for cutting off funds allocated to the northern city and questioned why the city was being unjustly punished.

“Why did Cabinet cut off $60 million out of $100 million that was allocated to  Tripoli long ago, preventing the city from rising out of its social and economic misery?” the lawmaker asked in a statement.

“The city is being punished because it is loyal to its role and history and identity and stances; those who failed at controlling  Tripoli through explosions are trying to control it through poverty,” Kabbara said.

Former Prime Minister Najib Mikati’s Cabinet agreed in May 2012 to allocate $100 million in funds for development projects in Tripoli. The funds, however, were not secured.

Kabbara accused authorities of negligence toward the northern city, which is recovering from three years of unrest linked to the Syrian crisis.

Kabbara questioned whether there was a conspiracy to target  Tripoli and continue to distort its real image of openness and coexistence.

Tripoli, one of Lebanon’s poorest cities, has suffered from more than 20 rounds of violence since 2008 between supporters and opponents of the  Assad regime in the city, claiming the lives of dozens and causing massive damage and resulting in an economic decline.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Tripoli MP Mohammad Kabbara criticized authorities for cutting off funds allocated to the northern city and questioned why the city was being unjustly punished.

Kabbara questioned whether there was a conspiracy to target Tripoli and continue to distort its real image of openness and coexistence.
