
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki taking his seat as he prepares to testify before the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee in Washington on May 15.

The epicenter of the scandal is Phoenix, where VA medical center officials are accused of falsifying patient data to obscure long wait times for care. Phoenix VA officials are alleged to have created two lists of veterans waiting for appointments — one list was reported to the department to show progress, while a separate "secret" list held the truth about how many veterans were awaiting care, often for months.

Some 40 veterans on the secret list reportedly died while waiting, and the situation could be even worse, as Phoenix officials stand accused of destroying records that may be evidence of malfeasance. After years of silence due to concerns about retribution from VA leaders, former Phoenix VA employees are now speaking up to expose the broader pattern of abuse, neglect and mismanagement at the facility.

And the scandal is growing. On May 4, USA TODAY reported that an investigation of Colorado VA clinics found workers there had also falsified records to make it appear that veterans were receiving more timely care; as in Phoenix, the delays are believed to have led to preventable deaths. A May 9 CNN report quoted a VA scheduler in San Antonio, Texas, who said officials there have been "cooking the books" to cover up long wait times. Reports of poor patient care, maintenance issues and unsanitary practices abound at other VA facilities.

At one time, the VA might have dismissed these various failures as isolated incidents. But taken together, they reveal a pattern of abuse and dysfunction that cannot be denied or ignored.

Thus far, the response from VA leadership and the Obama administration has been tepid. The director of the Phoenix VA and two other managers were placed on administrative leave, and Secretary Shinseki has called for audits of VA facilities nationwide.

But nearly a month after the scandal broke, with new revelations appearing almost daily, that may be too little, too late. The American Legion and Concerned Veterans for America have both called for Shinseki's resignation, to send a clear message that VA leaders must be held accountable for these failures.

Project leadership by being forthright and visible. Visit the Phoenix VA center and meet openly with members of the media and the public to address concerns.

Restore integrity to VA recordkeeping. Issue clear direction to all VA employees that secret lists, alternative recordkeeping measures and other attempts to sugarcoat the real state of affairs at the VA will not be tolerated. Make it clear that any VA employees who destroy or alter records may face termination and criminal prosecution.

Hold executives accountable. Appoint a new acting under secretary. Place all Phoenix leaders implicated in the scandal on administrative leave and detail trusted VA executives from elsewhere pending investigation.

Investigate VA hospitals as first step toward turnaround. While the secretary's call for a VA audit is a good first step, yet another internal review will be of little value. The Obama administration could request a special counsel to conduct a targeted investigation of VA health care operations nationwide, to determine the extent of the problem and develop permanent fixes.

Work with Congress to strengthen accountability. The secretary should get behind the push in Congress to pass the VA Management Accountability Act of 2014, to strengthen his hand in dealing with poor performing executives.

These steps, though not all that's needed to fix the VA, would be useful corrective to the secretary's current stance of appearing detached and unresponsive. It's time to start rebuilding trust in the VA, and the department's leadership steps to manage the crisis now — before the crisis overwhelms the department.

Darin Selnick, a U.S. Air Force veteran, is an independent consultant and a member of the Concerned Veterans for America's organizing committee. He served as special assistant to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from 2001-2009 during the George W. Bush administration.
