
The board of AstraZeneca on Monday rejected the improved $119 billion takeover offer from U.S. drugmaker Pfizer, a decision that caused a sharp slide in the U.K. company’s share price, with many investors thinking it effectively brings an end to the protracted and increasingly bitter takeover saga.

biggest drugmaker by revenue, has been courting No. 8 AstraZeneca since January, arguing that their businesses are complementary. On Sunday, it raised its stock-and-cash offer by 15 percent, to $119 billion. That would be the richest acquisition ever among drugmakers and the third-biggest in any industry, according to figures from research firm Dealogic.

AstraZeneca didn’t take long to reject the new offer. Its board argued that Pfizer is making “an opportunistic attempt to acquire a transformed AstraZeneca, without reflecting the value of its exciting pipeline” of experimental drugs.

Because Pfizer said it won’t raise its offer again or launch a hostile takeover bid over the heads of AstraZeneca’s board, the prospect of a deal looks increasingly remote unless AstraZeneca shareholders urge a change of stance. Pfizer has said it hopes AstraZeneca’s shareholders will push for a deal.

●A Detroit-based business recalled about 1.8 million pounds of ground-beef products, sold for restaurant use in four states, that may be contaminated with the bacteria E. coli. The Agriculture Department’s Food Safety and Inspection Service said affected Wolverine Packing products were produced between March 31 and April 18. They were shipped to distributors in Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri and Ohio. The Food Safety and Inspection Service said that 11 illnesses have been identified.

●Former Target chief executive Gregg Steinhafel’s total pay fell 35 percent, to $13 million, in his last year at the helm, according to a regulatory filing. Steinhafel, who had earned nearly $20 million the previous year, stepped down from the chairman and CEO role and resigned from the board this month in the wake of a massive data breach and a botched expansion plan in Canada that have hurt the retailer’s sales and profits. Target said in documents filed Monday that more executive compensation is being tied to relative performance compared with similar companies. As a result, Steinhafel didn’t receive any option awards or cash bonus. A year ago, Steinhafel received option awards valued at $5.2 million and a cash bonus of $2.9 million.

●A federal appeals court refused to reconsider its previous ruling that businesses don’t have to prove they were directly harmed by BP’s 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill to collect settlement payments. The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit in New Orleans could be a step toward resuming a claims process that was suspended after a district court ruling in December. However, BP spokesman Geoff Morrell said late Monday that the company is considering its legal options. BP had asked the full appeals court to rehear the case after a three-judge panel’s March ruling. The court voted 8-5 against a rehearing.

●Sprint will pay $7.5 million to resolve federal regulators’ inquiry into its failure to honor consumers’ requests that they not receive telemarketing calls or texts, the Federal Communications Commission said. The agreement between Sprint and the FCC marks the largest settlement of do-not-call violations, the FCC said. It follows a settlement of similar allegations against the company in 2011. Under the latest accord, Sprint will have to implement a compliance plan and update regulators on its efforts over the next two years.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
