
Business-friendly Republicans are expected to defeat conservative challengers in primaries in Kentucky, Georgia, Idaho and Oregon, giving the Republican establishment a slew of victories over social and fiscal conservative hard-liners.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) will likely cruise to victory over businessman and Tea Party candidate Matt Bevin (R). Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), an ally of Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), is the heavy favorite to defeat his Tea Party rival in a race where national groups spent millions.

The two candidates establishment Republicans were most worried about emerging from Georgia’s crowded Senate primary are unlikely to make the primary runoff. And Dr. Monica Wehby (R), national Republicans’ favored candidate, is likely to win her Oregon Senate primary.

CROSSROADS: American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS are launching $10 million worth of ads in Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado and North Carolina.

MS-SEN (COCHRAN): Two new polls conducted by allies of Mississippi state Sen. Chris McDaniel (R) find him with leads over Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.).

A mailer from a super-PAC backing Cochran compares McDaniel to former Rep. Todd Akin (R-Mo.).

GA-SEN (OPEN): Democrat Michelle Nunn repeatedly dodged questions about whether she would have voted for ObamaCare.

Businessman David Perdue (R) is out with an ad slamming Rep. Jack Kingston (R-Ga.) as a career politician and defending his own business record.

OR-SEN (MERKLEY): Republican Senate candidate Dr. Monica Wehby’s ex-husband accused her of “ongoing harassment” during divorce proceedings, while she accused him of physical abuse.

MT-SEN (WALSH): Sen. John Walsh’s (D-Mont.) campaign is demanding Rep. Steve Daines (R-Mont.) release all his business records, accusing him of working to outsource jobs to China.

KY-SEN (MCCONNELL): Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has maintained his big lead over primary opponent Matt Bevin (R) heading into Tuesday’s primary, according to a new poll.

DCCC: The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee raised $7.1 million in April.

AR-4 (OPEN): Former FEMA Director James Lee Witt (D) has a new ad featuring his longtime friend, former President Clinton.

PA-6 (OPEN): Former Rep. Marjorie Margolies (D-Pa.) slammed Pennsylvania state Rep. Brendan Doyle (D) as “anti-choice” in an MSNBC appearance.

MN-8 (NOLAN): Rep. Rick Nolan’s (D-Minn.) opponent released his first TV ad.

BIDEN: Vice President Biden will headline a fundraiser for the Democratic National Committee at billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer’s home.

Obama's vacation ends The president returns to Washington after a vacation plagued by criticism.

Fears mount of ISIS infiltrating... Some lawmakers worry a visa program has created a major security weakness.

House Republicans hire legal... A contract with Baker Hostetler sets a cap of $350,000 for legal costs.

Sharpton blasts police at Brown... Rev. Al Sharpton said it was "time to deal with policing."
