
JUDGE Alexander Acosta junked the Cebu City Government’s bid to dismiss outright the civil petition filed by at least nine Barangay Parian residents seeking to stop the demolition of their houses.

Acosta, the Regional Trial Court Branch 9 presiding judge, denied the City’s motion to dismiss the petition, saying the demolition notice is for the construction of a women’s center.

“Verily, the same is relevant in the eviction and demolition of the houses of the petitioners,” read Acosta’s five-page order.

Likewise, Acosta granted the residents’ motion for production and inspection of the documentary evidence.

In February, the residents filed the petition before the Regional Trial Court against Mayor Michael Rama and Raquel Bohol Arce, chief of City Hall’s Prevention, Restoration, Order, Beautification and Enhancement team.

Assisted by their lawyer Paterno Belcina, Jr., the petitioners asked the court to issue a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction.

The petitioners are Roquita Sison, Arturo Cabading, Rosalia Rollon, Diema Mandabon, Nelia Mejos, Maria Stela Aguanta, Clie John Aguanta, Babiano Pavo and Miraciel Quintanilla.

The residents said that in 2006, former mayor Tomas Osmeña also declared that the City owned the property where their houses stand.

He threatened to evict the residents and demolish their houses until they apprised him about the Supreme Court decision that stated the property is owned by the Catholic Church.

The petitioners’ houses sit on a portion of Lot 378, which is adjacent to the Parian Fire Station, whose land is owned by the Archdiocese of Cebu.

The petitioners admitted their house stands on church property.

The petitioners claimed that they and the Catholic Church signed a memorandum of agreement (MOA) regarding their stay on the property.

They said Rama insisted that “the land is ours,” and reiterated his order for them to leave the property, or face demolition after Christmas.

But Rama and Arce, through City Legal Office Jerone Castillo, asked Judge Acosta to dismiss outright the petition for lack of merit.

Castillo said that Lot 378 in Barangay Parian is owned by the City Government.

Thus, the petitioners, who do not own the property, have no right to be protected by an injunctive writ, Castillo said.

“The City of Cebu has the legal right to clear the area so it could build a women’s center, which would serve public interest,” the City’s pleading read.

Castillo said the complaint ought to be dismissed since Miraciel Quintanilla, one of the petitioners, committed forum-shopping when he filed a similar petition in other court.

Another petitioner, Roquita Sison, filed the complaint without citing a cause of action, the city legal lawyer said.

Published in the Sun.Star Cebu newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
