
Jill Abramson has broken her silence following her firing from The New York Times and rather than taking the opportunity to fight back against her former bosses, she gave a graceful and lighthearted speech where she vowed to continue her journalistic career.

Speaking at the Wake Forest University graduation ceremony this morning- just five days after her unexpected dismissal as The Times' executive editor sent shockwaves through the media industry- Abramson gave no further clues into prompted the paper’s publisher to fire her.

Showing that while her firing- which many have critiqued as being done in a callous way- did not create ill will towards the paper of record, she told how some students asked her if she was going to remove the tattoo that she has of the stylized ‘T’ used on The New York Times masthead.

‘Not a chance!’ she said.

Keeping mum: Abramson did not go into the reasons for her unexpected firing only saying that 'losing a job you love hurts' but that it was 'the honor of my life to lead the newsroom'

'Some of you, and now I’m talking to anyone who’s been dumped, not getting the job you really wanted, or gotten those rejection letters from grad schools- you know the sting of losing, or not getting something you really want. When that happens, show what you are made of,' she said.

She spent much of the brief commencement speech attempting to bring the focus back on the graduates making light of the obvious national scrutiny that the ceremony would be given.

‘I'm impressed that your achievements have attracted so much media attention, as well they should,’ she said with a grin.

She told how she has gotten supportive calls from friends like Anita Hill, who testified against Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas’ nomination and was the subject of a book Abramson wrote, and her sister which have been greatly appreciated.

‘Very early last Thursday my sister called me she said “I know dad would be as proud of your today as the day you became executive editor of The New York Times,”’ she said.

The only reference she made about gender discrimination in any form came when she cited journalist Nan Robinson and former Washington Post owner Katherine Graham as role models, saying that they 'faced discrimination in a much tougher more male dominated newspaper industry' without going into any of her own personal battles.

'I’m talking to anyone who’s been dumped,  not getting the job you really wanted, or gotten those rejection  letters from grad schools- you know the sting of losing, or not getting  something you really want. When that happens, show what you are made of'

Speaking generally of hardships and overcoming obstacles, Abramson spoke about how she was run over and nearly killed in Times Square seven years ago but has worked hard to get back in good health.

‘We human beings are a lot more resilient than we often realize,’ she said.

As for her future plans, she talked about the important work that journalists are doing abroad and fighting censorships in places like China, where the government has blocked access to The New York Times website for more than a year.

‘This is the work I will remain very much a part of,’ she said.

Her mention of censors comes just hours before the Department of Justice is expected to announce charges against certain Chinese government officials who are accused of hacking into American companies to steal trade secrets. The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal are among the companies who have complained in the past year that they have had their computer systems targeted by government-backed hackers.

She did not shed any light on her upcoming projects, only making it clear that she will continue working and involved in the news industry.

‘What's next for me? I don't know! So I'm in exactly the same boat as many of you. And like you, I'm a little scared but also a little excited,’ she said to the graduating class, joking that she had signed up for a private session with the Wake Forest career counsellor.

Abramson’s firing from the job just three years after being promoted to the position has been a point of controversy ever since it was announced last Wednesday.

'It is one thing to gossip or complain about your boss, but quite another to watch her head get chopped off in the cold light of day. The lack of decorum was stunning,' The Times ' media columnist David Carr wrote on Sunday.

Abramson and publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr reportedly signed a non-disparagement agreement as part of her settlement, meaning that neither could publicly criticize the other or disclose the specifics about her dismissal. That has left other media reporters to fill in the blanks, with several contributing factors coming to the forefront.

In addition to comments about her 'mercurial' and 'brusque' managerial style from inside the newsroom, she allegedly recently hired a lawyer to look into claims that she had been paid significantly less than her male counterparts for more than a decade at The Times.

The numbers that came out subsequently support that, with her predecessor Bill Keller reportedly making $559,000 at the time he stopped down in 2011 while she was only offered $475,000 to take over.

Sulzberger has maintained that Abramson actually earned more than Keller- even though the yet-undisputed numbers directly contradict that statement- and he has placed the blame on a dispute over her push to hire Janine Gibson from The Guardian to be a co-managing editor which came as an affront to Dean Baquet, her then-number two who has since been named as her replacement.

Without going into too many specifics about the back-and-forth between Baquet, Abramson, himself, CEO Mark Thompson and Gibson, Sulzberger put out a statement on Saturday making it clear that by his account, the firing was not motivated by her gender.

He said that her 'arbitrary decision-making, a failure to consult and bring colleagues with her, inadequate communication and the public mistreatment of colleagues' were serious enough for him to make the call.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
