
RICHMOND, VA--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) - Snagajob , America's largest hourly employment marketplace for job seekers and employers, today announced the Hourly America road trip. Hourly America is a new program that will send Heath Padgett, a recent college graduate and career insights blogger, on a cross-country roadtrip to help shine a spotlight on the vital role hourly workers -- 75 percent of America's workforce -- play in the economy.

Throughout this journey, Snagajob will help Padgett locate and apply for open hourly positions across the country by leveraging its database of 300,000 plus hourly jobs posted on Snagajob.com .

"Heath came to us with this wildly unique idea to travel around the country in his RV to experience first-hand the many jobs and individuals that make up the hourly workforce," said Snagajob CEO Peter Harrison. "Snagajob is thrilled to partner with Heath throughout this journey and we hope that job seekers across the country will benefit from Heath's insights and experiences."

Hourly America begins on June 1, 2014, when Padgett will leave his hometown of Austin, Texas, to embark on the seven-month road trip across the country. For each of his 50 hourly jobs, one in each state, Padgett will spend one day shadowing an hourly employee to gain key knowledge about that particular job, which he will then share with job seekers on his blog, HourlyAmerica.com .

"I'm doing this to give a face and voice to the hourly employees all across America who work so hard every day," said Padgett. "It's also an opportunity for people unsure of what they want to do to see a 'day in the life' of an employee in a wide range of positions and industries."

To follow the Hourly America journey and keep up with Padgett's progress, visit his Hourly America blog at HourlyAmerica.com and follow along on Twitter and Instagram, @HourlyAmerica.

Snagajob, America's largest hourly employment network for job seekers and employers, is the only company solely dedicated to providing recruitment and hiring solutions to the hourly industry. With more than 50 million registered job seekers and the leading hourly-focused talent management system, Snagajob has been serving hourly workers and those who employ them since 2000. Headquartered in Richmond, Va., Snagajob has been named to both Fortune Magazine's Great Place to Work® Best Small & Medium Workplaces list and Deloitte's Technology Fast 500 for the past five years. To find out more, visit www.snagajob.com and www.snagajob.com/employer-solutions.

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
