
The U.S. Labor Department is considering challenging a ruling that held the agency unlawfully coerced settlements from Oregon farmers. A federal judge ruled Pan-American Berry Growers and B&G Ditchen were under economic duress when they signed settlements.

The U.S. Department of Labor is considering an appeal of a judge's ruling that found the agency unlawfully coerced farmers into signing settlement deals.

The U.S. Labor Department seems to be seriously thinking about challenging a ruling that held the agency unlawfully coerced settlements from Oregon farmers.

A federal judge recently ruled that two Oregon farms were under economic duress when they agreed to pay the agency $220,000 to settle allegations of minimum wage violations.

The DOL had threatened to block shipments of their blueberries in 2012 under the “hot goods” provision of federal labor law unless the farms agreed to settle.

In April, U.S. District Judge Michael McShane overturned the settlement deals.

The growers basically had no choice but to sign them because delayed shipment of the perishable crops would “cripple” the farms, the judge said.

The farms — Pan-American Berry Growers and B&G Ditchen — have filed court documents seeking to have their money returned.

The agency’s attorneys are discussing “whether and how to appeal” the order with the U.S. Department of Justice, according to a court document.

Tim Bernasek, attorney for the farms, said he is doubtful the DOL would be able to launch such an appeal.

“We have not researched it extensively on our end, but our preliminary indication is that it’s not appealable at this time,” he said.

Non-final orders can only be appealed in certain circumstances, said Judith Giers, an adjunct law professor at the University of Oregon and an attorney specializing in appeals.

In this case, the DOL would have to seek an “interlocutory” appeal because the order effectively re-opens the case.

Interlocutory appeals generally apply to injunctions, as well as orders in bankruptcy and admiralty cases, Giers said.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals has the discretion to review other non-final orders, but this rarely happens, she said.

To obtain such a “permissive” interlocutory appeal, the judge overseeing the case would have to agree that there’s a question of law that the 9th Circuit needs to resolve, she said.

If the agency ends up losing its claims that the farms violated labor law, however, it may then challenge the judge’s decision to throw out the settlements, Giers said.
