
Mysteryland, the world's longest running dance-music festival, is making its U.S. debut this coming weekend at Bethel Woods Center For The Arts in Bethel, New York, aka the site of 1969's Woodstock Festival.

Lady Gaga rocked some 80's style while leaving her apartment building in New York City on June 6.

Eva Longoria and Felicity Huffman had a little "Desperate Housewives" reunion at the AFI Life Achievement Award: A Tribute To Jane Fonda at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, California on June 5.

Lindsay Lohan was seen at Chiltern Firehouse in London on June 5.

Scott Disick attended the 2014 FIFA World Cup McDonald's launch party at Pillars 38 on June 5 in New York City.

Lena Dunham was seen rocking a "No Comment" sweater while out and about in New York City on June 5.

Hilary Duff was all smiles as she ran errands on June 5 in Beverly Hills, California.

Channing Tatum has some fun at the "22 Jump Street" premiere at AMC Lincoln Square Theater on June 4 in New York City.

Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban attended the 2014 CMT Music Awards at the Bridgestone Arena on June 4 in Nashville, Tennessee.

Carrie Underwood attended the 2014 CMT Music Awards at the Bridgestone Arena on June 4 in Nashville, Tennessee.

Kendall and Kylie Jenner were seen stepping out in New York City on June 4.

Bradley Cooper got whipped into shape by military personnel while filming scenes for his upcoming movie "American Sniper" in Los Angeles, California on June 4.

Sarah Jessica Parker went for a walk on June 4 in New York City.

Emma Roberts and Evan Peters enjoyed a romantic stroll on the beach together while vacationing in Maui, Hawaii on June 3.

Kim Kardashian stopped by Craig's in West Hollywood, California to have lunch with her mom Kris Jenner on June 3.

Taylor Schilling attended the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at Berkeley Square Gardens on June 3 in London, England.

Miranda Lambert stopped by ABC studios for an appearance on "Good Morning America" in New York Cit on June 3.

Angelina Jolie attended the "Maleficent" photo call at The Bund on June 3 in Shanghai, China.

John Mayer enjoyed dinner out at Madeo Restaurant on June 2 in West Hollywood, California.

Blake Lively left her hotel with designer Michael Kors and headed to the 2014 CDFA Awards on June 2 in New York City.

Gwen Stefani spotted leaving a skin care clinic while out and about in Beverly Hills, California on June 2.

Katie Holmes spotted picking up Jergens Natural Glow Daily Moisturizer in New York City on June 2.

Pete Wentz took a test drive of the new Mario Kart 8 for Wii U in Los Angeles, California on June 2.

Halle Berry attended the Huading Film Awards on June 1 at Ricardo Montalban Theatre in Los Angeles, California.

Kim Kardashian was seen at LAX on June 1 in Los Angeles, California.

Shailene Woodley was seen leaving the Bowery Hotel in New York City on June 1.

Marion Cotillard spotted out and about with a friend in New York City on June 1.

Khloe Kardashian chatted away on her cell phone as she arrived on a red eye flight at JFK airport in New York on May 31.

Jane Lynch signed copies of her book "Marlene, Marlene, Queen of Mean" at the 2014 Bookexpo America at The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on May 29 in New York City.

Taylor Schilling, Jason Biggs and Laura Prepon attended a photo call to launch season 2 of Netflix exclusive series "Orange Is The New Black" on May 29 in London.

Peter Facinelli and Jaimie Alexander shared a kiss after their work out at a gym in West Hollywood, California on May 29.

Mariah Carey at the 2014 Fresh Air Fund Honoring Our American Hero at Pier Sixty in New York City on May 29.

Farrah Abraham spotted posing for cameras in New York City on May 29.

Prince William and Kate Middleton visited Strathearn Community Campus in Crieff, Scotland on May 29.

"The Bachelorette" Season 1 couple Trista and Ryan Sutter stopped to pose for the cameras while out and about in New York City on May 29.

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt at the Los Angeles premiere of "Maleficent" at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood, California on May 28.

Chris Martin and his band Coldplay perform live at the Casino de Paris on May 28 in Paris.

Hilary Duff stopped by a nail salon in Los Angeles, California on May 28.

Scott Disick spotted out and about with a friend in New York City on May 28.

Emily Blunt attended the premiere of "Edge Of Tomorrow" on May 28 in London.

Nina Dobrev wowed at the World Music Awards 2014 at Sporting Monte-Carlo on May 27.

Kristen Stewart departed on a flight at LAX airport in Los Angeles, California with her bodyguard on May 27.

Amanda Seyfried, Charlize Theron and Seth MacFarlane attended a photo call to promote "A Million Ways To Die In The West" on May 27 in London, England.

Jennifer Garner met a friend for lunch at Larchmont Bungalow in Los Angeles, California on May 27.

Tom Cruise attended "Edge Of Tomorrow" photocall at Terrazza Civita on May 27 in Rome, Italy.

Kaley Cuoco and her husband Ryan Sweeting attended Joel Silver's Annual Memorial Day Party at his home in Malibu, California on May 26.

Kris Jenner and baby North West left Florence Airport after Kim Kardashian And Kanye West's wedding on May 25 in Florence, Italy.

Emma Watson, in a cap and gown, attending Brown University’s 2014 Graduation Ceremony in Providence, Rhode Island on May 25.

Eva Longoria had a busy morning in Los Angeles, California on May 25.

Iggy Azalea arrived at The Bank nightclub at the Bellagio on May 24 in Las Vegas, Nevada.

Supermodel Hilary Rhoda and her fiance former "DWTS" contestant Sean Avery celebrated Memorial Day with Tequila Don Julio cocktails from the Airstream speakeasy in the Hampton's on May 24.

Hilary Duff dined out at Craig's restaurant on May 24 in West Hollywood, California.

Kim Kardashian and Kanye West got married on May 24 in Florence, Italy.

Uma Thurman attended the "Clouds Of Sils Maria" premiere at the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 23 in Cannes, France.

Kristen Stewart, Juliette Binoche and Chloe Grace Moretz attended the "Clouds Of Sils Maria" premiere during the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 23.

Kanye West, Kim Kardashian and Kris Jenner were spotted leaving an apartment on May 23 in Paris, France.

Chris Martin arrived at LAX Airport to catch a flight out of town on May 22 in Los Angeles, California.

Lea Michele signed copies of her book "Brunette Ambition" at Barnes & Noble Book Store at the Grove in Los Angeles, California on May 22.

Jude Law at the Peace One Day Monaco Gala in support of Peace One Day's Education work in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Great Lakes region in Monaco on May 22.

Pharrell Williams visited the ITV studios on May 22 in London, England.

Drew Barrymore and Will Kopelman arrived at the Los Angeles premiere of "Blended" at TCL Chinese Theatre on May 21 in Hollywood, California.

Jennifer Lopez wowed at the "American Idol" finale at the Nokia Theatre LA Live in Los Angeles, California on May 21.

Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield went out for a coffee in New York City on May 21.

Kim Kardashian and her family dined out at Costes restaurant on May 21 in Paris, France.

Rosie Huntington-Whiteley attended the "The Search" premiere at the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 21.

Heidi Klum and her boyfriend Vito Schnabel arrived in Nice, France for the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 21.

Ali Larter shopped at Marshalls in Los Angeles, California on May 21.

Tom Cruise was spotted on a night out at the Chiltern Firehouse in London, UK on May 20.

Cheryl Burke at the 'Dancing With The Stars" Season 18 Official Wrap Party at the Sofitel Hotel in Los Angeles, California on May 20.

Jessica Alba was all smiles while stopping by her office in Santa Monica, California on May 20.

Christina Hendricks and Ryan Gosling hugged it out at the "Lost River" photocall at the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 20.

Naomi Watts started her morning off with a workout at the gym on May 20 in Brentwood, California.

Katie Holmes glowedin a floral Desigual dress at an NYC studio on May 20.

Kate Hudson wore short shorts while out and about in New York City on May 19.

Drew Barrymore and Adam Sandler cozied up at the premiere of "Blended" at the CineStar Cinema in Berlin, Germany on May 19.

Kim Kardashian and her fiance Kanye West spent the day shopping at luxury brands Balenciaga, Versace and Colette on May 19 in Paris, France.

Jessica Chastain attended the "Foxcatcher" premiere during the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 19 in Cannes, France.

Andi Dorfman, the new Bachelorette, dropped by ABC Studios for an appearance on "Good Morning America" on May 19.

Jennifer Lopez in the 2014 Billboard Music Awards Press Room held at the MGM Grand Garden in Las Vegas, Nevada on May 18.

Jennifer Lawrence attended Lionsgate's "The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1' party at a private villa on May 17, 2014 in Cannes, France.

Matthew McConaughey and his family participated in Drew Brees', The Brees Dream Foundation charity fundraiser mimicking the Amazing Race in New Orleans, Louisiana on May 17.

Naomi Watts spotted at the beach wearing Skechers GOwalk 2, while taking a break from the Cannes Film Festival on May 17.

Kim Kardashian landed on a flight at LAX Airport on May 15 in Los Angeles, California.

Charlize Theron and Sean Penn attended the "A Millions Ways To Die In The West" premiere held at the The Regency Village Theater in Westwood, California on May 15.

Jennifer Lopez arrived on the set of "American Idol" in Hollywood, California on May 15.

Taylor Swift stopped by a gym for a workout in New York City on May 15.

Calvin Klein Collection and euphoria Calvin Klein celebrated Women in Film on May 15 during the 67th Cannes Film Festival with Rooney Mara, Naomi Watts, Lupita Nyong'o and Julianne Moore.

Blake Lively attended the "Mr.Turner" premiere at the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 15.

Lady Gaga posed for pictures with fans as she and her boyfriend Taylor Kinney left their apartment building in New York City on May 15.

Amal Alamuddin, fiancee of George Clooney, grabbed a taxi to the American Embassy in London, England on May 15.

Khloe Kardashian departed on a flight at LAX in Los Angeles, California on May 14.

Katie Holmes spotted at the Winter WONKA™-land Pop-Up in downtown NYC on May 15.

Kendall Jenner attended the opening ceremony and "Grace of Monaco" premiere at the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 14.

Blake Lively attended the opening ceremony and "Grace of Monaco" premiere at the 67th Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 14.

James Franco stopped by NBC Studios for an appearance on "The Today Show" on May 14.

Peter Dinklage was enthusiastic at the "X-Men: Days Of Future Past" premiere in Beijing, China on May 13.

Cameron Diaz enjoyed a hike with a friend at TreePeople Park in Beverly Hills, California on May 13.

Nicole Kidman signed autographs after appearing on Le Grand Journal in Cannes, France on May 13.

George Clooney's fiancee Amal Alamuddin flashed her engagement ring in London on May 13.

Jennifer Lopez spotted out and about in New York City on May 12.

Julia Roberts attended the New York premiere of "The Normal Heart'" at Ziegfeld Theater on May 12.

Sir Ian McKellen attended the UK Premiere of "X-Men: Days of Future Past" at Odeon Leicester Square on May 12.

Diane Keaton at the launch of the L`Oreal Paris `It`s That Worth It` melanoma awareness campaign in NYC on May 12.

Angelina Jolie stepped out of her car on the Upper East Side on May 12 in New York City.

Pregnant singer Christina Aguilera and fiance Matthew Rutler were spotted out for coffee on Mother's Day with her son Max in Los Angeles, California on May 11.

Jennifer Lawrence wowed at the New York premiere "X-Men: Days Of Future Past" at the Jacob Javits Center in New York City on May 10.

Jenna Dewan spotted in a little black dress while leaving her hotel on May 9 in New York City.

Chrissy Teigen and Curtis Granderson attended the The New National Campaign "Pledge. Drink. Win," encouraging kids to drink more water. Photo taken at MLB Fan Cave on May 8 in New York City.

Jimmy Kimmel took a break from his hosting duties on May 8 to hang out with Penelope Cruz, who brought the Nespresso VertuoLine coffee to the show.

"Game of Thrones" star Maisie Williams arrived at the BBC Radio 1 studios in London on May 8.

Lucy Hale looked gym-ready in LA on May 8.

Jennifer Lopez was snapped backstage at "American Idol" looking red hot on May 7.

Mariah Carey arrived to the "Late Show with David Letterman" in NYC on May 7.

Supermodel Gisele Bundchen attended the 2014 Rainforest Alliance Gala at Museum of Natural History in NYC on May 7.

Jake Gyllenhaal accompanied his reported girlfriend Alyssa Miller while she walked her dog in New York City on May 7.

Blake Lively stepped out of a downtown New York City hotel wearing a shiny flowered trench coat on May 7.

Benedict Cumberbatch and Dakota Johnson were spotted out and about in New York City on May 6.

Jennifer Aniston photographed on the set of "Cake" in Sylmar, California on May 6.

Sean Penn and Charlize Theron were spotted holding hands while out and about in New York City on May 6.

Elle Fanning and Angelina Jolie attend a photocall for the film "Maleficent" at Hotel Bristol on May 6 in Paris.

Jessica Biel checked her messages while wearing an Atlas Bangle and Pendant by Tiffany & Co. while in Copenhagen on May 6.

Sarah Jessica Parker attended the "Charles James: Beyond Fashion" Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City on May 5.

Emma Stone attended "Charles James: Beyond Fashion" Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City on May 5.

Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds attended "Charles James: Beyond Fashion" Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City on May 5.

Taylor Swift was seen stopping by a gym in New York City on May 4.

Jessica Simpson and Eric Johnson arrived on a flight at LAX airport in Los Angeles, Calif., on May 4.

Lea Michele attended the "Legends of OZ: Dorothy's Return" premiere held at the The Regency Village Theater in Westwood, Calif., on May 3.

Ellen Page was spotted leaving the gym in West Hollywood, Calif., after a workout on May 2.

Jared Leto attended the 2014 iHeartRadio Music Awards held at The Shrine Auditorium on May 1 in Los Angeles, Calif.

Emma Roberts went grocery shopping at Bristol Farms in West Hollywood, Calif., on May 1.

Kate Bosworth rocked a fierce red dress out and about NYC on May 1.

Jessica Biel was spotted jetting out of LAX solo on April 30.

Kim Kardashian and Serena Williams went shopping in Paris on April 30.

Sarah Jessica Parker attended the 2014 AOL NewFronts at Duggal Greenhouse in NYC on April 29.

Blake Lively filmed a scene for "The Age of Adaline" in Vancouver, Canada on April 28.

Brooklyn Decker and Andy Roddick left their shoes at home for TOMS One Day Without Shoes event held to raise awareness about children’s health and education needs.

Jonah Hill had some fun with fro-yo in NYC on April 28.

Tori Spelling headed out of her LA home on April 28, amid reports that her husband Dean McDermott cheated on her which landed her in the hospital for nearly a week.

Rihanna attended Roc Nation Sports' 1-year anniversary luncheon at TAO in NYC on April 28.

Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones attended the 41st Annual Chaplin Award Gala at Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, NYC, on April 28.

Naomi Watts did some spring shopping at the farmers market in Brentwood, Calif. on April 27.

Pregnant Kendra Wilkinson attended her son's soccer game at Woodland Hills, Calif., on April 27.

Dianna Agron and Carey Mulligan shared a laugh while strolling through West Hollywood on April 26.

Gwen Stefani and her family boarded their private jet in California on April 26.

Emma Stone sizzled at "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" premiere at the Ziegfeld Theater in NYC on April 24.

Kate Upton, Cameron Diaz and Leslie Mann attended The Cinema Society & Bobbi Brown with InStyle screening of "The Other Woman" at The Paley Center for Media in NYC on April 24.

Khloe Kardashian did some shopping with her mother Kris in West Hollywood on April 24.

Newlywed Jodie Foster grabbed a smoothie in LA on April 24.

Emma Stone stopped by the "Good Morning America" studios in NYC on April 24, with her "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" co-stars Andrew Garfield and Jamie Foxx.

Jessica Alba landed in NYC on April 23.

Rumer Willis attended the 5th Annual Elle Women in Music Celebration presented by CUSP by Neiman Marcus in Hollywood, Calif. Hosted by Elle Editor-in-Chief Robbie Myers, the April 22 event featured performances by Sarah McLachlan, Angel Haze and Betty Who.

Eddie Murphy's daughters Shayne (left) and Bria Murphy attended Elle's 5th Annual Women in Music concert celebration on April 22 in Hollywood.

Jason Sudeikis shared a laugh with Rebecca Hall on set of "Tumbledown" in Boston on April 22.

Taylor Swift engaged in some retail therapy in NYC on April 22.

Drew Barrymore gave birth to her second child, a baby girl named Frankie Barrymore Kopelman, on April 22.

Katy Perry headed to Jimmy Kimmel's studio in Hollywood, Calif., on April 21.

Sofia Vergara wowed at "Good Morning America" on April 21.

Selena Gomez went on a coffee run in Studio City, Calif. on April 21.

Busy Philipps and husband Marc Silverstein had some fun at Coachella on April 20.

Gwen Stefani headed to her parents' house on Easter Sunday, April 20, with her husband Gavin Rossdale and three kids, Kingston, Zuma and Apollo.

Tia Mowry soaked up some sun in Cabo, Mexico with her husband Cory Hardrict on April 19.

Jennifer Lopez and boyfriend Casper Smart had a casual dinner at Madeo in West Hollywood on April 17.

Aubrey Plaza, Jason Ritter, Dade Constantine, and Kayla Dobson attended the "About Alex" premiere afterparty during the Tribeca Film Festival at Kutsher's Tribeca in NYC, April 17.

Pregnant singer Christina Aguilera and her fiance Matthew Rutler were photographed out and about in New York City on April 17.

Katie Holmes spotted out and about in New York City on April 17.

"Downton Abbey" actress Jessica Brown Findlay hopped on a train at Manchester Piccadilly Train Station after her interview on "BBC Breakfast" on April 17 in England.

Heather Graham visited NBC Studios for an appearance on "The Today Show" on April 17 in New York City.

Justin Bieber and his crew, including Lil Za, were spotted out for dinner at The Grove in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 16.

Georgia May Jagger, daughter of Mick Jagger, filmed a commercial for Rimmel London in London, England, on April 15.

Halle Berry filmed scenes for her TV series "Extant" in Century City, Calif. on April 15.

Lauren Conrad did some shopping in West Hollywood on April 15.

Andrew Garfield, Emma Stone, Jamie Foxx and Dane DeHaan posed during a photocall for their film "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" prior to the German premiere of the film in Berlin on April 15.

Kim Kardashian and her fiance Kanye West walked hand-in-hand as they went shopping in Givenchy, Balmain and Lanvin on April 14 in Paris, France.

Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan-Tatum joked around backstage at the 2014 MTV Movie Awards at Nokia Theatre L.A. Live in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 13.

Lupita Nyong'o arrived at the 2014 MTV Movie Awards at Nokia Theatre L.A. Live in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 13.

Taylor Swift and a friend were spotted out and about in New York City on April 12.

Jessica Biel was all smiles as she headed out for an espresso in New York City on April 12.

Leonardo DiCaprio stopped by the McDonald’s® and Stingray Desert Coachella Pool Party at the Bootsy Bellows Estate on April 12 to celebrate the launch of McDonald’s® Bacon Clubhouse Burger™ and the 2014 Corvette Stingray.

Julianne Hough looked Coachella cool at The Old Navy Oasis in Indio, Calif.m on April 12.

Selena Gomez and Kendall and Kylie Jenner at the first weekend of The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival on April 11.

Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield visited BBC Radio 1 in London on April 9 to promote their new film, "The Amazing Spider-Man 2."

Pregnant Kristin Cavallari was spotted running in West Hollywood on April 9.

Danica McKellar left "Dancing with the Stars" practice in Hollywood on April 8.

Julianne Moore was pretty in white while out in NYC April 8.

Anne Hathaway wrapped herself up in a giant coat while out in NYC on April 8.

Lady Gaga struck her usual unique pose outside the Roseland Ballroom on April 7.

British socialite Peaches Geldof died of an "unexplained and sudden" cause on April 7. She was 25.

"Dancing with the Stars" star Derek Hough took a break from rehearsal on April 7 to snack on the new Ritz crackers.

Jamie Lynn Sigler was spotted purchasing a Rembrandt whitening kit at Target in New York on April 7.

Faith Hill and Tim McGraw at the 2014 Academy Of Country Music Awards at the MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada on April 6.

Miranda Lambert and Blake Shelton at the 2014 Academy Of Country Music Awards at the MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada on April 6.

Carrie Underwood at the 2014 Academy Of Country Music Awards at the MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada on April 6.

Taylor Swift at the 2014 Academy Of Country Music Awards at the MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada on April 6.

Cameron Diaz made an appearance on "Wetten, dass..???" TV show on April 5 in Offenburg, Germany.

Heidi Klum attended the "America's Got Talent" red carpet event at Madison Square Garden on April 4 in New York City.

Nicole Richie attended Lucky FABB: Fashion and Beauty Blog Conference at the SLS Hotel in Beverly Hills on April 4.

Shakira and Usher attended NBC's "The Voice" red carpet event at The Sayers Club in Hollywood on April 3.

Dianna Agron was spotted out and about West Hollywood on April 3.

Kiernan Shipka, Jessica Pare, Elisabeth Moss, Jon Hamm, January Jones and Christina Hendricks attended the "Mad Men" season 7 premiere at ArcLight Cinemas in Hollywood on April 2.

Kate Upton, Cameron Diaz and Leslie Mann attended the U.K. premiere of their movie "The Other Woman" on April 2 in London.

Lady Gaga arrived at the "Late Show with David Letterman" taping in NYC April 2.

Heidi Klum joined Dr. Scholl’s to announce the DreamWalk line of insoles to help women everywhere bring their uncomfortable shoes out of the “shoe closet" in New York on April 2.

Jennifer Connelly and Russell Crowe posed together before the screening of their new film "Noah" in Paris on April 1.

Comedienne Amy Schumer promoted her "Finger Blaster" sketch from season 2 of the Comedy Central hit "Inside Amy Schumer" in NYC, April 1.

Naomi Watts left the gym with a friend after a morning workout on April 1 in Brentwood, Calif.

Hulk Hogan attended the WrestleMania 30 press conference at the Hard Rock Cafe New York on April 1.

Sebastian Stan and Chris Evans posed with Captain America during The NYSE Opening Bell at New York Stock Exchange on April 1.

Cobie Smulders attended The Cinema Society & Gucci Guilty screening of "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" at the TriBeCa Grand Hotel in NYC, March 31.

Emma Watson wowed at the UK Premiere of "Noah" at Odeon Leicester Square on March 31 in London.

Naomi Watts went for a morning jog with a friend in Brentwood, Calif., on March 31.

Johnny Depp attended the "Transcendence" press conference at Grand Hyatt Hotel on March 31 in Beijing, China.

Shailene Woodley, Theo James and Kate Winslet attended the European Premiere of "Divergent" at Odeon Leicester Square on March 30 in London.

Lea Michele had a Marilyn moment while on the red carpet at the 27th Annual Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards in Los Angeles, Calif., on March 29.

Taylor Swift spent some quality time with her model pal Lily Aldridge in NYC on March 28.

Melanie Griffith was spotted out and about Beverly Hills on March 28.

Channing Tatum and Mila Kunis attended CinemaCon at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace, Las Vegas, on March 27.

Jennifer Lopez sizzled in red on "American Idol" March  27.

Reese Witherspoon was spotted heading to a meeting in Beverly Hills on March 27.

Taylor Swift went shopping in NYC on March 27.

Kim Kardashian jetted to China from LAX on March 27.

Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield attended "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" Singapore fan event at Marina Bay Sands on March 26.

Pregnant actress Mila Kunis did some shopping in Beverly Hills, Calif., on March 26. Mila is reportedly expecting her first child with fiance Ashton Kutcher.

Anne Hathaway visited the BBC studios in London on March 26.

Kelly Rowland posed at the launch event for the new Caress Fresh Collection body washes in NYC on March 26.

Crop top-clad Mindy Kaling attended PaleyFest at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood on March 25.

Steven Tyler performed at the National Music Publishers' Association "Celebration of the American Songwriter" event honoring him for his career and advocacy work, on March 25.

Emma Watson rocked a tux to "'Late Show with David Letterman" in NYC on March 25.

Kim Kardashian stunned in a see-through dress on "Late Night with Seth Meyers" on March 25.

Gwyneth Paltrow and husband Chris Martin announced their separation on March 25.

Kim Kardashian grabbed lunch in New York on March 25.

Newly single Robin Thicke was all smiles in NYC March 25.

Meryl Streep filmed scenes as Emmeline Pankhurst in "Suffragette" in London on March 24.

Samuel L. Jackson, Scarlett Johansson and Chris Evans attended the "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" premiere at Taikoo Li Sanlitun on March 24 in Beijing, China.

Stacy Keibler is pregnant! The newlywed announced that she's expecting her first child with husband Jared Pobre on March 24.

Kourtney Kardashian dropped by ABC Studios for an appearance on "Good Morning America" on March 24 in New York City.

Anne Hathaway enjoyed a day on the beach with friends in Miami, Fla., on March 23.

Engaged couple Johnny Depp and Amber Heard were seen holding hands as they leave their hotel in New York City on March 22.

Pregnant actress Olivia Wilde and a friend were spotted out for lunch in New York City on March 22.

Mazel tov! Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher are expecting their first child together, multiple sources reported Sunday, March 23.

"DWTS" star Max Chmerkovskiy slipped a Duracell Powermat backup battery onto his iPhone on March 22.

After much speculation, on March 21 is was revealed that Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are Vogue's April cover stars.

America Ferrera attended the premiere of "Cesar Chavez" at TCL Chinese Theatre in Hollywood on March 20.

Jennifer Connelly prepped for her "Good Morning America" appearance on March 20, where she promoted her latest film "Noah."

Sophia Bush met up with friends in LA on March 20.

Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield posed for "The Amazing Spider-Man 2: Rise Of Electro" photocall on March 20 in Sydney, Australia.

Charlize Theron posed for a bikini photo shoot in Miami on March 19.

Emma Roberts was out for lunch in West Hollywood on March 19.

Molly Sims added style to Wendy's #NewSaladCollection at an exclusive fashion event to celebrate their new Asian Cashew Chicken and BBQ Ranch Chicken Salads on March 19 in New York City.

Nicky Hilton was spotted out and about NYC on March 19.

Kate Winslet and Shailene Woodley attended the "Divergent" premiere at the Regency Bruin Theatre in LA on March 18.

Emilia Clarke, Richard Plepler, Peter Dinklage and David Benioff attended the "Game of Thrones" Season 4 New York premiere at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center on March 18.

Lea Michele attended the "Glee" 100th episode party held at the Chateau Marmont in LA on March 18.

Reese Witherspoon headed to the salon in Beverly Hills on March 18.

Kylie Minogue dropped by the BBC Radio 1 studio in London, England on March 18.

Jaime King picked up designer spring fashions at T.J.Maxx in LA on March 18.

Halle Berry and Goran Visnjic filmed scenes on the set of "Extant" on March 17 in LA.

Blake Lively filmed a scene on the set of "The Age Of Adaline" in Vancouver, Canada on March 17.

Maria Menounos left "The Wendy Williams Show" after promoting her reality TV show, "Chasing Maria Menounos," on March 17.

Chic Eva Mendes was spotted in West Hollywood on March 17.

Julianne Hough went for a morning jog with a friend in West Hollywood, Calif., on March 17.

Nicole Scherzinger stepped out in London on March 17. The brunette beauty waved happily to cameras and wore a sheer black sweatshirt over a white singlet along with black leather pants and white pumps.

Alyssa Milano grabbed a ride on her husband David Bulgliari's Can-Am Spyder on March 17 in LA.

Kermit the Frog tried to ease tensions between fashion divas Miss Piggy and Joan Rivers during their recent adventure at QVC on March 16. The Muppets were at QVC to celebrate Disney's Muppets Most Wanted, in theaters nationwide March 21.

LeAnn Rimes joined her husband Eddie Cibrian for his boys' baseball game in Calabasas, Calif., on March 16.

Wilmer Valderrama took in live performances at The Naked Grape Wines Music Box during SXSW in Austin, Tex., on March 15.

Courtney Stodden and her deep tan ate lunch in Beverly Hills on March 14.

Kristin Cavallari rocked leather tights in NYC on March 14.

Scarlett Johansson attended "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" premiere at the El Capitan Theatre on March 13 in Hollywood, Calif.

Kim Kardashian was spotted leaving the Versace Mansion in Miami on March 13.

Hilary Duff grabbed breakfast at La Conversation cafe in West Hollywood on March 13.

Emma Roberts engaged in some retail therapy in Beverly Hills on March 13.

Rita Ora was seen out and about in NYC on March 13.

Kanye West performed at SXSW on March 12 in Austin, Texas.

Stylish Reese Witherspoon attended a baby class in Brentwood, Calif. on March 12.

Birthday girl Liza Minnelli stopped by the NBC studios in NYC for an appearance on "Today," March 12.

Scott Disick and Kourtney Kardashian were seen out and about Miami on March 12.

Kim Kardashian waved to her fans from the balcony in Miami, March 12.

Pregnant Kristin Cavallari left the Sirius XM studios in NYC on March 12.

Victoria's Secret model Alessandra Ambrosio showed the brand's 2014 Swim Collection on "Extra" at Universal Studios, LA, on March 11.

Selena Gomez shot an Adidas commercial in NYC on March 11.

Jimmy Fallon stepped out of his NYC home on March 11.

Rumer Willis made a Starbucks run on March 11 in West Hollywood.

Jason Sudeikis and pregnant Olivia Wilde enjoyed a romantic stroll in New York City for Olivia's birthday on March 10.

Stacy Keibler gave herself a manicure using Sally Hansen Triple Shine nail color on March 10 in LA.

Sean Avery took a break from "Dancing with the Stars" practice to  read "Way of the SEAL" in LA on March 10.

Britney Spears, her boyfriend David Lucado, her ex-husband Kevin Federline and his wife Victoria Prince watched their sons Sean and Jayden play soccer in Calabasas, Calif., on March 9.

"True Detective" star Michelle Monaghan picked up food from Earthbar in West Hollywood on March 7.

Aaron Paul arrived at the premiere of "Need for Speed" at TCL Chinese Theatre on March 6.

Sarah Jessica Parker presented The SJP Collection at LA Nordstrom on March 6.

James Franco, Leighton Meester and Chris O'Dowd attended the "Of Mice and Men" press conference at Signature Theatre, NYC, on March 6.

Taylor Swift headed to the gym in LA on March 6.

Ireland Baldwin and her new purple hair were spotted grocery shopping in Tarzana, Calif. on March 6.

"Gossip Girl" star Jessica Szohr went shopping in LA on March 6.

Lupita Nyong'o, Elizabeth Olsen, Bella Heathcote and Elle Fanning attended the Miu Miu show at Paris Fashion Week on March 5.

Jennifer Hudson stopped by the Sony Music offices in London on March 5.

Minka Kelly left her LA gym after a workout on March 5.

Mandy Moore was spotted out and about West Hollywood on March 5.

Julianne Moore was spotted on the set of "Still Alice" in NYC on March 4.

Courteney Cox and boyfriend Johnny McDaid of "Snow Patrol" did some shopping in West Hollywood on March 4.

Jared Leto arrived at LAX for a flight, March 4.

Engaged couple Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis went out for dinner at the Black Market Liquor Bar in Studio City, Calif., on March 3.

Jessica Biel caught a flight out of LAX Airport on her 32nd birthday March 3 in Los Angeles, Calif. Jessica is flying to Florida to meet up with her husband Justin Timberlake (who's currently on tour there) to celebrate her birthday with him.

Sophia Bush appeared on Nick Lachey`s first episode as Host of VH1`s Big Morning Buzz in NYC on March 3.

Jennifer Lawrence attended the 2014 Vanity Fair Oscar Party hosted by Graydon Carter on March 2 in West Hollywood, Calif.

Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner attended the 2014 Vanity Fair Oscar Party hosted by Graydon Carter on March 2 in West Hollywood, Calif.

Sofia Vergara attended the 2014 Vanity Fair Oscar Party hosted by Graydon Carter on March 2 in West Hollywood, Calif.

Ryan Seacrest posed with John Stamos at Mike De Luca and Dana Brunetti’s Oscar after party in the Hollywood Hills on March 2, where McDonald’s World Famous fries, Egg White Delights, Egg McMuffins, and hash browns were served.

"12 Years a Slave" wins Best Picture at the Oscars, March 2.

Matthew McConaughey wins Best Actor at the Oscars, March 2.

Cate Blanchett wins Best Actress at the Oscars, March 2.

Jared Leto wins Best Supporting Actor at the Oscars, March 2.

Lupita Nyong'o wins Best Supporting Actress at the Oscars, March 2.

Alfonso Cuaron wins Best Director at the Oscars, March 2.

Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie arrived at the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Leonardo DiCaprio and Christoph Waltz arrived at the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Meryl Streep arrived at the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Jennifer Lawrence arrived at the 86th Academy Awards on March 2 and fell, again.

Kerry Washington arrived at the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Anne Hathaway arrived at the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Pregnant Olivia Wilde and Jason Sudeikis arrived on the red carpet for the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Anna Kendrick arrived on the red carpet for the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Portia de Rossi arrived on the red carpet for the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Kristen Bell arrived on the red carpet for the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

"12 Years a Slave" director Steve McQueen arrived on the red carpet for the 86th Academy Awards on March 2.

Camila Alves toasted her glam team with a Bailey's Glamour Shot before hitting the Oscars red carpet on March 2.

Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew McConaughey and Director Steve McQueen talked about creating a brighter future on the Yellow Carpet presented by Unilever Project Sunlight during the 2014 Film Independent Spirit Awards on March 1.

Kanye West attended the Celine show at Paris Fashion Week on March 2.

Kendall Jenner went sightseeing at the 'Musee du Louvre' in Paris, France on March 1.

Pregnant Kendra Wilkinson wowed at the 5th Annual QVC Red Carpet Style held at the The Four Season Hotel in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Feb. 28.

Julianne Hough met a friend for lunch at Joan's on Third in Los Angeles, Calif., on Feb. 28.

Leslie Mann and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau filmed scenes for the "The Other Woman" in LA Feb. 27.

Hilary Duff left her LA gym on Feb. 27.

Jessica Alba attended the Nina Ricci show at Paris Fashion Week Feb. 27.

Rihanna attended the Lanvin show at Paris Fashion Week Feb. 27.

Dwyane Wade lunched with fiancee Gabrielle Union in Miami on Feb. 26.

Amanda Seyfried went grocery shopping at Trader Joe's in LA on Feb. 26.

Amy Adams left the gym in West Hollywood on Feb. 26.

Emma Roberts and fiance Evan Peters made their way through the airport in Paris, France, on Feb. 26.

Olivia Palermo and fiance Johannes Huebl arrived at the H&M Paris fashion show on Feb. 26.

Sofia Vergara and fiance Nick Loeb touched down at LAX on Feb. 26.

Executive producer Joel Fields, Keri Russell, and writer Joe Weisberg attended "The Americans" Season 2 premiere after-party at The Plaza Hotel in NYC, Feb. 24.

Ashley Greene attended Oakley's "Disruptive by Design" global campaign launch event at RED Studios in LA on Feb. 24.

Amy Poehler and Vice President Joe Biden were guests on Seth Meyers' first "Late Night" episode Feb. 24.

Michelle Dockery, Lupita Nyong'o, Liam Neeson and Julianne Moore attended the premiere of their film "Non-Stop" at the Regency Village Theatre in LA on Feb. 24.

Reese Witherspoon headed out for a cup of coffee in NYC on Feb. 24.

Katie Holmes was seen out for lunch with a mystery man in NYC on Feb. 24.

Pregnant actress Olivia Wilde left her pilates class at Harmony Studios on Feb. 24 in West Hollywood, Calif.

Giuliana Rancic was spotted buying Ban Total Refresh Cooling Body Cloths while on the go in LA, Feb. 24.

Taylor Swift and Lorde were spotted out shopping at Free People in Brentwood before finishing up at Rag & Bone in West Hollywood, Calif., on Feb. 23.

Raquel Welch stunned at the 16th Costume Designers Guild Awards held at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on Feb. 22.

Hilary Duff was all smiles in LA on Feb. 21.

Sofia Vergara filmed scenes on the beach in Sydney, Australia on Feb. 21.

Taylor Swift was seen leaving the gym in West Hollywood, Calif. after a workout on Feb. 21.

Kim Kardashian stopped by Milk Studios in NYC to visit her fiance Kanye West as he recorded on Feb. 20.

AnnaSophia Robb attended Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey presents "Legends" at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, NY, on Feb. 20.

"American Idol" judges Keith Urban, Jennifer Lopez, Harry Connick, Jr., host Ryan Seacrest and former judge Randy Jackson attended the show's after-party in West Hollywood on Feb. 20.

Sofia Vergara and Sarah Hyland filmed a scene for "Modern Family" in Sydney, Australia, on Feb. 20.

Kanye West protected himself from the cold in NYC on Feb. 20.

Padma Lakshmi stepped out in SoHo, NYC, on Feb. 20.

Beyonce performed her hit song "XO" at the 2014 Brit Awards at the 02 Arena in London, England on Feb. 19.

Swimsuit model Anne V rocked a black bikini at the beach in Miami Feb. 19.

Ashley Greene worked on her fitness at Tracy Anderson Studios in Studio City, Calif. on Feb. 19.

Dakota Fanning and boyfriend Jamie Strachan walked through New York City's East Village on Feb. 19.

Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys filmed scenes for their series "The Americans" in Queens, NY, on Feb. 19.

Hilary Duff hit the gym in West Hollywood, Calif. on Feb. 19.

Selena Gomez grabbed coffee with a friend in Studio City, Calif. on Feb. 19.

Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Eric Stonestreet filmed scenes for "Modern Family" in Sydney, Australia on Feb. 18.

Lady Gaga was spotted heading to "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon" on Feb. 18 in NYC.

Reese Witherspoon looked lovely at lunch in Brentwood, Calif., Feb. 18.

Ellen Page, who came out as gay last week to much support from her Hollywood peers, was seen heading out of LAX on Feb. 18.

Debra Messing arrived at the "Today" show studio in NYC on Feb. 18.

"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon" premiered Feb. 17 with guest Will Smith.

Amber Heard made an appearance on "Late Show with David Letterman" in NYC, Feb. 17.

Kourtney and Khloe Kardashian touched down at LAX on Feb. 17.

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt attended the BAFTA Awards held at The Royal Opera House on Feb. 16 in London, England.

Lupita Nyong'o attended the BAFTA Awards held at The Royal Opera House on Feb. 16 in London, England.

Leonardo DiCaprio attended the BAFTA Awards held at The Royal Opera House on Feb. 16 in London, England.

Dakota Johnson went on a run on the set of "Fifty Shades of Grey" in Vancouver, Feb. 14.

Taylor Swift headed to dance class in LA on Feb. 14.

The 50th Anniversary cover of Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue was unveiled Feb. 13 and it features not one but three bikini'd babes: Chrissy Teigen, Lily Aldridge and Nina Agdal.

Mel Gibson took his on again-off again girlfriend Nadia Lanfranconi to a romantic pre-Valentine's Day dinner at Wolfgang's Steakhouse in Beverly Hills on Feb. 13.

Kendall Jenner walked the runway at the Marc Jacobs fashion show during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Fall 2014 at the New York State Armory on Feb. 13.

Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour, and actresses Lupita Nyong'o and Naomi Watts attended the Calvin Klein Collection fashion show during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Fall 2014 at Spring Studios on Feb. 13.

Anna Kendrick attended the J. Mendel fashion show during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Fall 2014 at The Theatre at Lincoln Center in NYC on Feb. 13.

Kristen Stewart was spotted en route to a meeting in Hollywood on Feb. 13.

Helen Mirren touched down at Heathrow Airport in London on Feb. 13.

Taylor Swift went shopping in Hollywood on Feb. 13.

Johnny Depp and his fiancee Amber Heard arrived at the premiere of "3 Days To Kill" at the Arclight Theatre on Feb. 12 in LA.

Kanye West attended the "River Of Fundament" world premiere at BAM Harvey Theater on Feb. 12 in NYC.

Jennifer Lopez took part in a photo shoot on a yacht in Miami, Florida on Feb. 12.

Selena Gomez grabbed slurpees with some friends in LA on Feb. 12.

Blake Lively posed backstage at the Michael Kors fashion show during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Fall 2014 at Spring Studios on Feb. 12.

Malin Akerman stopped to refuel her car in West Hollywood, Calif. on Feb. 12.

Anna Faris was all smiles as she left a nail salon in West Hollywood, Calif. on Feb. 12.

Chrissy Teigen arrived at the Badgley Mischka show during New York Fashion Week on Feb. 11.

Shirley Temple Black, iconic child star and former U.S. ambassador to Ghana and Czechoslovakia, died on Feb. 10 in California. Cause of death was not released. She was 85.

Olivia Munn attended the premiere of "Robocop" on Feb. 10 in Hollywood, Calif.

Katie Holmes, Rita Ora, Trudie Styler, Deborra-Lee Furness and Hugh Jackman attended the Donna Karan New York 30th Anniversary fashion show during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Fall 2014, on Feb. 10.

Academy Award nominees, including Sandra Bullock, Amy Adams, Philippe Le Sourd, Alfonso Cuaron, Karen O, and Leonardo DiCaprio, attended the 86th Academy Awards nominee luncheon at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on Feb. 10.

Jeremy Piven got ready for a ride on the Can-Am Spyder in Los Angeles, Calif. on Feb. 10.

Julianne Hough rocked a new pixie haircut while departing on a flight at LAX airport in Los Angeles, Calif., on Feb. 9.

Stellan Skarsgard, Bente Trier, Lars von Trier, Uma Thurman, Christian Slater and Stacy Martin attended the "Nymphomaniac Volume I" premiere during the 64th Berlinale International Film Festival on Feb. 9 in Berlin, Germany.

Sophia Bush volunteered with Trio Animal Foundation to support the Barefoot Wine Soles of the Year Program on Feb. 8.

Lady in white: January Jones visited the Sunset Tower Hotel in Los Angeles, Calif. on Feb. 7.

Ashley Tisdale visited the the Andy LeCompte Salon in West Hollywood, Calif. on Feb. 7.

Meryl Streep attended the funeral service for actor Philip Seymour Hoffman at St. Ignatius of Loyola in NYC on Feb. 7.

Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese attended the Cinema Vanguard Award to Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio at the Arlington Theatre on Feb. 6 in Santa Barbara, Calif.

Billy Crystal bid farewell to Jay Leno on the final episode of "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" on Feb. 6.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
