
Morning Shift: School resegregation in the 21st century  WBEZ: We examine the legacy of Brown vs. The Board of Education and the face of school segregation today.

CPS parents mark Brown v. Board of Education decision by highlighting present-day challenges  Sun Times: Chicago Public Schools parent Zerlina Smith spent the first minute of the day Saturday inside Gresham Elementary School on the South Side. She had been at the proposed turnaround school all Friday evening.

Community protests school closings during 'Brown' anniversary  Tribune: More than 100 Chicago Teachers Union members, parents and activists rallied outside a shuttered South Side CPS school Saturday morning calling for more support for neighborhood schools.

Karen Lewis gets in fighting shape  Chicago Sun-Times: They want him gone. If his re-election bid were held today, just 29 percent of registered voters would support Mayor Rahm Emanuel, according to a new poll commissioned by the Chicago Sun-Times.Karen Lewis is on it.

Uneasy is the hothead that wears the crown  Chicago Tribune: Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis has been her picador, stabbing at the Rahmfather every chance she gets. There are few, if any, negative connotations hanging next to Preckwinkle's name, at least for now.

Emanuel reflects on third year in office  Tribune: A more-introspective-than-usual Mayor Rahm Emanuel reflected on his third year in office Friday, saying the decision to shutter dozens of Chicago Public Schools was the hardest he’s had to make and acknowledging his hard-charge personality has rubbed many the wrong way.

Don't rush an Illinois school funding overhaul   Chicago Tribune:  The Chicago Public Schools system would lose some money in state aid at first but would gain in other areas over time, according to Manar.

Peterson Principal Who Lashed Out at Rahm Gets Some Local Support  DNAinfo: In response to the principals' complaints, CPS CEO Barbara Byrd-Bennett told the Sun-Times she invited principals to contact her directly if they're feeling marginalized or intimidated.

Trice: Valuing good citizenship and test scores : Victor Harbison is an award-winning high school civics teacher whose Chicago Public Schools students over the last two decades have undertaken ambitious class projects. They've built a memorial — with an interactive kiosk — to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. They've tried to stop older men from catcalling and even dating underage girls.

I grew up near Roscoe &amp; Halsted in the 1970s, left for college and moved back in 2000, started this blog in 2005 (first on my own, then with Catalyst, and now with ChicagoNow). My dad went to Senn. I went to Near North Montessori and Parker.  Since 2006 I've been living in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn -- the Wicker Park of New York City.  I have another education blog called This Week In Education that focuses on school reform trends at the national level.
