
Marrakech - Princess Lalla Salma, president of the Lalla Salma Foundation for Cancer Prevention and Treatment inaugurated, on Monday in Marrakech, a reproductive health reference center for breast and uterine cancer early detection.

The Princess was given details on the health center, the population targeted by the national program for breast and uterine cancer early detection and the results of the program regionally and at the prefecture level.

Princess Lalla Salma inaugurated, afterwards, the reproductive health reference center.

Princess Lalla Salma toured the center made up of check-up rooms for the cervix and breast, ultrasound, mammography, colposcopy, observation, sterilization of equipment, pharmacy, and a meeting room.

The setting up of the center is part of the national program for breast and uterine cancer early detection which is developed in collaboration with the Health Ministry.

The center offers 4,500 consultations per year for breast and uterine cancer screening and early diagnosis.

The center’s construction and equipment, over a surface area of 700 square meters, is worth 6.1 mln dirhams funded by the Al Waleed Bin Talal Foundation, social security body CNOPS and the Lalla Salma Foundation for Cancer Prevention and Treatment.

The center is part of the broadening of the program on uterine cancer early detection in the prefecture of Marrakech. The nation-wide program on breast cancer screening and early diagnosis targets a population of 3.4 million women.

The activities of the program on uterine cancer early detection are ensured in six regions: Rabat Salé Zemmour Zaïr, Meknès Tafilalt, Fez Boulmane, Marrakech Tensift El Haouz, Greater Casablanca, and Gharb Chrarda Bni Hssein. It covers a targeted population of 1.5 million women.

As for the prefecture of Marrakech, the program for breast and uterine cancer early detection targets a population of 166,000 women aged 45-69 for breast cancer screening and nearly 122,000 women aged 30-49 for uterine cancer.
