
Cape Town - South Africans who buy a Samsung Smart television are eligible for one million megabytes of data thanks to a deal between the South Korean company and Vox Telecom.

"The million MBs of free Fat Pipe ADSL data being offered to Samsung customers is valid for 12 months - and is unthrottled, unshaped, high quality bandwidth," said Gary Sweidan, executive head of Products and Marketing for Vox Telecom.

The deal is expected to boost sales of smart TVs, but doesn't include line rental and cost of the router.

Smart TVs are increasingly being used as an alternative to traditional TV as viewers can watch content on demand, as opposed to a regular programming schedule.

Smart TVs are also experiencing sharp growth in developed markets like the US.

According to Strategy Analytics, global smart TV shipments grew 55% to reach 76 million units in 2013, and up to 45% of TV replacements in Europe were smart TVs over the same period.

The move is reflected in pay TV operator MultiChoice offering online movie rentals to cater to a growing number of subscribers who utilise these services.

"It was important for us to supply a data service solution that would enhance the consumer’s viewing experience and we, together with Samsung, believe that our Fat Pipe ADSL product was the perfect match," said Sweidan.

High speed cable broadband is seen as ideal for rich media internet services like video or gaming, but SA is hamstrung by persistently high costs and the slow rollout of mobile broadband.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
