
John Banks' campaign treasurer says he didn't know Kim Dotcom had made two $25,000 donations, and never asked the MP if he knew the identity of the donor.

Banks, 67, is on trial accused of falsely claiming donations from Dotcom and SkyCity were anonymous in his donation declaration after his failed 2010 Auckland mayoral campaign.

Banks received a $15,000 donation in May 2010 from SkyCity and two $25,000 donations in June 2010 from Megastuff Ltd on behalf of Dotcom - and the Crown says Banks knew who had made the donations despite signing a return declaring them as anonymous.

But Lance Hutchinson told the High Court at Auckland today that he listed the donations as anonymous as the candidate wouldn't have known who made them.

"We got lots of promises but we can never know who made them on a particular day."

He said Banks never said anything to him about the donations from Dotcom or SkyCity.

He only found out that two donations in June 2010 were made by Megastuff on behalf of Dotcom when police told him and first heard of Dotcom from Campbell Live some time after the campaign.

Dotcom's donation was made by an anonymous bank deposit slip while SkyCity made a donation in a sealed envelope which was delivered to Mr Hutchison's desk, probably by Banks' handler.

When asked by crown lawyer Paul Dacre QC if he thought Banks would have seen the envelope if his handler had it, Mr Hutchison said he didn't know.

Mr Hutchison compiled the donations return on behalf of Banks, who signed it.

"As far as I was concerned the return was true and correct. Still is today."

Mr Hutchinson also said the campaign team looked at the National Business Review rich list and made a list of people they hoped to get $25,000 donations from.

A number of people sat in the public gallery during the first day of the trial, including protester Penny Bright, former ACT party president John Boscawen and broadcaster Sean Plunket.

The judge-only trial before Justice Edwin Wylie has been set down for two weeks.

The start of the trial was delayed after an elderly man pelted the MP with mud as he arrived at the High Court.

The man appeared agitated and said Banks owed him $8000, said protester Kevin Hester, who witnessed the incident.

Constable Hayden Craddock told NZ Newswire police were investigating the incident.
