
Phil Shiner from Birmingham-based Public Interest Lawyers says: 'I won't be bullied'

The man behind the hugely expensive attempt to prosecute British Army soldiers for abusing prisoners has revealed his law firm has been targeted for death threats and abuse.

Phil Shiner from Birmingham-based Public Interest Lawyers said that every day someone calls the firm to dish out vitriol.

The 57-year-old said that the “bullying” wouldn’t put him off pursuing what he describes as justice.

Mr Finucane was a Belfast solicitor who took on the British Army in human rights cases in Northern Ireland, who was shot dead in front of his family.

Many have accused the firm of seeking to make big profits on the back of these cases, including one where soldiers were accused of murdering 20 Iraqis. This key claim was abandoned due to lack of evidence, but the inquiry itself cost more than £22 million.

Last ween the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague announced it would launch a preliminary examination of claims that British troops committed war crimes after the invasion of Iraq.

A BIRMINGHAM lawyer representing Iraqis who claim they were tortured and sexually abused by British soldiers said that there could be hundreds of uninvestigated claims of abuse.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Fort Dunlop,

Fort Parkway,

Fort Dunlop,

Fort Parkway,

We reach over 784,967* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of Birmingham and the West Midlands.

Over 66% of our visitors, who view over 4m* page impressions every month, are in the desirable ABC1 socio-economic groups.

The Birmingham Mail is part of Trinity Mirror Midlands , offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

A born and bred Brummie, David was appointed editor of the Birmingham Mail in November 2009.

He has over 30 years experience as a journalist in the West Midlands including editorships on the Coventry Telegraph and Sunday Mercury.
