
ISLAMABAD: Awami National Party (ANP) chief Asfandyar Wali Khan has warned political forces to avoid polarisation in order to steer the country out of its present crises.

Addressing members of the party’s provincial and central organising committees in Wali Bagh on Monday, Khan asked the government to take the Parliament in to confidence over the evolving political situation in the region in the aftermath of general elections in Iran, India and Afghanistan.

The meeting with members of the organising committees was presided over by Acting President of the party’s central organising committee Bushra Gohar.

Khan expressed concern over the widening gulf between state institutions, claiming that any further escalation in the situation could undermine the democratic system.

The ANP leader dubbed the performance of the incumbent government in Khyber Pakthunkhwa (K-P) as disappointing because it had failed to provide relief to the masses.

The situation in K-P is particularly dismal as the people are suffering due to deteriorating law and order, price hikes and an increase in load shedding, the ANP chief said.

It is a change for the worse, if there is any change at all. The K-P government has utterly failed in protecting the lives and property of the people in the province, Khan added.

Khan paid rich tribute to the sacrifices of the valiant workers of his party. He said followers of Bacha Khan have weathered many storms and they will continue their struggle against all odds. He called on ANP workers to continue with their political struggle for peace and prosperity, but to also take necessary precautions in doing so.

The meeting took stock of the organisational situation of the party and decided to complete party elections up to the provincial level before the commencement of the holy month of Ramazan.

Democracy is neither FREEDOM nor EQUALITY!

Democracy is THE TYRANNY OF THE MAJORITY! And always Democracy is SOCIALISM – a LEGAL PLUNDER of the populace!

In Pakistan, it is worse, because it is the TYRANNY OF THE Corrupt!

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
