
KOLKATA: With the BJP on its own getting the majority in the Lok Sabha and the Trinamool Congress having failed to emerge as the third largest party after the elections, West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee is now trying to form an “opposition block” in Parliament.

During the poll campaign, she had repeatedly claimed that the TMC would emerge as the third largest party and decide the next Prime Minister. She never imagined this kind of a Narendra Modi clean sweep and hoped to play a key role at the formation of the Central Government.

Such hopes have now been dashed though the TMC managed to win 34 out of a total of 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal.

The party had fielded many candidates in other states like Jharkhand and Assam but none of them could win the polls.

TMC insiders said that under the changed  scenario their party leader now wanted to concentrate on forming a strong Opposition block without the Congress in Parliament.

Her aim is to get the post of the Deputy Speaker for one of her party MPs if the AIADMK does not take it as it is usually allotted to the Opposition.

Mamata will shortly begin dialogues with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.

Both had been successful in blocking the Modi wave in their respective states.

While Jayalalithaa managed to win 37 out of 39 seats in Tamil Nadu, Naveen won 20 out of 21 seats in Odisha.

Before the elections, Jayalalithaa had telephoned Mamata to thank her after the West Bengal Chief Minister had said she would prefer Amma as the next Prime Minister of her “federal front”. Y S Jaganmohan Reddy of YSR Congress which has won nine seats in Andhra Pradesh had also come to the city and held a meeting with Didi before the polls.

TMC sources said Mamata was now trying to forge an alliance of these regional parties and form a block with around 100 MPS in the Lok Sabha.

TMC national secretary Mukul Roy and some other top leaders who were re-elected to the Lok Sabha and has contacts with other parties will be given specific tasks for this purpose.

Newly-elected TMC Rajya Sabha MP and Bollywood film star Mithun Chakraborty’s services are also to be likely used because of his pan India contacts.

If need be Mamata might also speak to former Bihar Chief Minister and RJD chief Lalu Prasad if he would be willing to sever his ties with the Congress, a TMC leader said.
