
Crossroads Christian Schools dismissed 11 employees four years ago, but the legal matters surrounding the firings haven’t been resolved.

Published: May 18, 2014 Updated: May 19, 2014  1:57 p.m.

Crossroads church fired 11 employees in 2010 because they did not have the same beliefs. Two of the ex-employees won a case before the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission but the EEOC apparently won't pursue the case further.

Four years after Corona’s Crossroads Christian Schools fired 11 employees for their religious beliefs, legal experts disagree as to whether the dismissals violated the law.

In May 2013, the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission found “reasonable cause to believe” that the conservative evangelical Christian school violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by dismissing the four teachers and seven other employees, most of whom are Catholic.

But the EEOC opted not to file a lawsuit, and the two fired employees who complained to the commission also haven’t sued.

The hiring and dismissal policy remains in place, Crossroads spokeswoman Kasey Husen said.

Leaders of the 863-student, kindergarten- through 12th-grade school and Crossroads Christian Church, which oversees the school, declined to comment on the policy or the EEOC’s findings.

The case pits the religious freedom of the school against the religious freedom of employees.

School officials contend that, as a ministry of the church, the school should expose students only to beliefs that are in line with church teachings. With more than 8,000 worshipers, Crossroads is one of the largest churches in Southern California.

Church officials said the school had long had rules requiring employees to adhere to certain religious beliefs and practices but did not strictly enforce the rules until the 2009-10 school year.

Employees also are required to attend a born-again, Protestant evangelical church.

Marylou Goodman, 55, an elementary school teacher who was fired in 2010, said she and the other 10 ex-employees never attempted to inculcate the students with their beliefs.

“When you knowingly hire someone of a different denomination and they work and do a good job and then you fire them just because they’re of a different denomination, then it’s religious discrimination,” said Goodman, who is Episcopalian.

Like some of the other fired employees, Goodman had difficulty finding a job in 2010, a time when many school districts were laying off teachers.

The Corona woman had worked as a teacher for 18 years — one year at Crossroads — but settled on a part-time bookkeeping job because she couldn’t find a teaching position. She still works as a bookkeeper.

Kim Wiles, 55, said she and her husband lost their home to foreclosure because of the firing.

Her husband was laid off from his job, and Wiles’ current position as assistant to a special education teacher in an Orange County public school pays only about half what she earned at Crossroads.

Wiles had worked at Crossroads for 22 years, mostly as an elementary-school teacher. During her final four years at Crossroads, she taught a Bible class, even though, she said, the school knew she is Catholic.

Chuck Booher, senior pastor of Crossroads church, said in a 2010 interview that the dismissed employees differed with Crossroads on some key teachings. For example, he said, Crossroads does not believe that the wine and wafer in communion become Christ’s body and blood, as the Catholic Church teaches, or that people should pray to saints.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Freedom Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Freedom publications without any notification or payment.
