
The Oberoi, Dubai, The Oberoi Group's first hotel in the UAE which opened in June 2013, has been named the at the Middle East's Leading Luxury City Hotel prestigious World Travel Awards and has also been voted Best New Business Hotel by readers of Business Traveller Middle East. The two awards follow the recent announcement that The Oberoi, Dubai was ranked number one hotel worldwide for service by ReviewPro.

Mr. P.R.S. Oberoi, Executive Chairman, The Oberoi Group said, "I am very proud that The Oberoi, Dubai has been voted the Middle East's Leading Luxury City Hotel and also the Best New Business Hotel. Dubai is a very competitive market with many outstanding hotels. For The Oberoi, Dubai to be recognized in this manner within its first year of opening is very good news indeed. The award illustrates Oberoi Hotels & Resorts dedication to offering guests world-class facilities and the best service. Our people have worked passionately to make The Oberoi, Dubai a success by ensuring guests receive warm, personalized and caring service. Our people are our biggest asset and I dedicate this award to them. I must also thank Sheikh Adel Aujan, Chairman of the Aujan Group and the owner of the property, for his Group's confidence in us. We look forward to bringing the Oberoi luxury experience to more markets in the Gulf and are currently working to develop and open an Oberoi beach resort near Dubai soon."

Mr. Karim Bizid, General Manager of The Oberoi, Dubai, said: "The Oberoi, Dubai brings an ethos of service without compromise. This recognition shows that we have consistently delivered the service promise that the Oberoi brand is renowned for worldwide. This award is testament to the passion and commitment each one of us at The Oberoi, Dubai share towards an exceptional guest experience. Oberoi Hotels & Resorts have received innumerable awards and accolades including being named the World's Best Hotel Brand by the readers of Travel + Leisure in the World's Best Awards, 2013, so we are proud to continue this legacy".

The World Travel Awards have been established for 21 years and have been described as the 'Oscars' of the travel and tourism industry by The Wall Street Journal. The World Travel Awards recognize and reward excellence in products and services and are voted for by travel industry professionals. The Business Traveller Middle East Awards highlight the best operators in the hospitality sector and are voted for by discerning and well-travelled readers of the magazine, the region's leading publication for corporate travellers.
