
Hard-working Brits toil for more than an extra week a year because they fail to take their full holiday allowance, according to new research yesterday.

Staff on average use only 77 per cent of the annual leave of between five and six weeks they are entitled to, giving up more than six days away from their jobs each year.

Even when they do get away from the office, many are still likely to do some work.

Joe Wiggins, of Glassdoor, said: 'While there is always work to be done, employees should be conscious of using time off they've earned to recharge. In turn, employers should consider being more clear to everyone about what it means to be on holiday, actually let others be on leave, and go beyond just encouraging employees to use time off.'

He claimed making staff take their holiday can be beneficial to businesses and said: 'Some real rest and relaxation will help employees return to work energised, ready to contribute and make them less susceptible to burn-out.'

Mr Wiggins said it now appeared that taking a full holiday allowance was a luxury.

He said: 'Our research shows that many employees do some work while they are supposed to be on leave because they have a difficult time switching off or because their colleagues or boss contact them.'

The research found that almost half (44 per cent) of respondents said they did some work while on holiday. The most common reason for this was fear of falling behind, closely followed by those angling for a pay rise and then employees who felt no one else could do their jobs.

Nearly one in 10 workers believe 'working is better than not working', so toil away even while on vacation, while just one in 50 say they work on holiday because they are afraid of losing their job.

Dr Jill Miller, an adviser at the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, said: 'These figures are really surprising given the importance of taking leave for employee wellbeing.

'Working too hard for too long can be unsustainable and unproductive. It's important for employers to have regular conversations with staff about taking their leave, and for them to remove obstacles that might be preventing their employees from doing so, such as unmanageable workloads.'

Dr Miller said that, despite the recovery, economic pressures can still make people reluctant to take time off if they are worried about not achieving their targets, and said HR departments needed to monitor not only how much leave is taken, but also not taken.

Adam Marshall, of the British Chambers of Commerce, said not taking holiday was common among senior staff who felt their presence at work was almost always required.

Mr Marshall said: 'What's most important is not the number of days of holiday taken, but an employee's well-being at work: leave is just one factor of that.'

Alexander Ehmann, of the Institute of Directors added: 'Managers should encourage staff to use their holiday allowance, that's what it's there for after all.

'You won't be able to stop people checking their BlackBerry from the beach, and it may be necessary to have senior staff contactable in emergencies, but we'd call on businesses to use their common sense and help workers relax when on leave.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
