
Following the announcement of completion of the election process by the Election Commission of India, the Chennai Corporation, on Monday, resumed work on civic infrastructure across the city.

Mayor Saidai Duraisamy and standing committee members held meetings at Ripon Buildings to expedite the works.

People’s representatives were unable to hold meetings over the past few months owing to the model code of conduct.

A number of councillors visited Ripon Buildings seeking speeding up of works that were held up because of the elections.

The work on re-laying 10,000 roads was suspended in most areas in the run-up to the elections.

The previous deadline for the project was May 31 and it is now expected to be completed before the northeast monsoon.

“Over 49 bus route roads are set to be upgraded in the Adyar zone. This work is likely to begin first. The new design of the bus routes will ease traffic congestion, help pedestrians and improve parking space,” said an official of the Chennai Corporation.

Encroachments on some of the roads have to be removed to facilitate redesign of the stretches.

The decision on the redesign of the stretches was taken by the sub-committee for non-motorised transport of Chennai Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (CUMTA) a few months ago.

The topographic survey of the 49 bus routes has been completed using LiDar, a technology using light and radar.

The redesign of stretches in the first phase was carried out in 55 bus route roads in the zones of Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Alandur and Adyar.

The work included redesign of two-metre wide footpaths, street furniture and parking space.

“Work started on more than 20 roads before the elections. The polls slowed things down,” said a consultant.

Some of the stretches including those near Luz will get better pedestrian facilities as part of the project.

The pedestrianisation of Thyagaraya Road in T.Nagar, urban primary health centres and a cycle sharing system are some of the other key works that will be implemented following the notification on completion of elections.
