
Hate preacher Abu Hamza is expected to die behind bars after he was last night found guilty in the US of a string of terror offences.

The hook-handed Islamist cleric – who for years spouted evil on Britain’s streets – was convicted by a New York court of 11 charges after a five-week trial.

The firebrand, 56, had denied helping to organise a hostage-taking in Yemen in 1998 when three Britons were killed.

He also denied supporting Al Qaeda in  Afghanistan by sending volunteers and money and trying to set up a  terrorist training camp Oregon in 1999. But a jury of eight men and four  women took 11 hours to reach their guilty verdict.

Hamza, also known as Mustafa Kamel  Mustafa headed the Finsbury Park Mosque in the 1990s, reportedly  attended by 9/11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui and shoe bomber Richard  Reid.

The  conviction marks the end of a relentless ten-year mission by the US  authorities to extradite Hamza, who only has one eye and stumps instead  of hands.

The  jury at Manhattan’s Federal Court agreed with the prosecution claims  that Hamza, 56, was a ‘trainer of terrorists’ who recruited and  indoctrinated young men at the Finsbury Park Mosque as part of his  global empire.

In his  opening statement Edward Kim, Assistant District Attorney for the  Southern District of New York, also said that Hamza used the cover of  religion to ‘hide in plain sight’ under the noses of the British  authorities for years.

Hamza  was convicted of 11 counts of criminal conduct related to the taking of  16 hostages in Yemen in 1998 that left three Britons and an Australian  dead.

He was also found  guilty of advocating violent jihad in Afghanistan in 2001 and conspiring  to establish a jihad training camp in Bly, Oregon, between June 2000  and December 2001.

During  the trial Hamza’s defence team tried to claim that the prosecution case,  which included videos of his fiery sermons at the Finsbury Park Mosque,  was just about ‘words, not deeds’.

They portrayed him as an ‘independent thinker’ who was ‘on his own island’.

In  his testimony Hamza did little to enamour himself with the jury when he  brazenly said that even today he loves Osama bin Laden and that he  thought 9/11 was a good thing.

Ironically it was only due to his personal intervention that he spoke at all about such matters.

Hamza  wrote a series of letters to District Judge Katherine Forrest saying  his evidence would be 'important for historians' and overruling his  lawyers’ objections to him talking about anything inflammatory not  strictly to do with the case.

A  major defeat for Hamza was the decision by Judge Forrest to ban him  from discussing his supposed links with MI5 or Scotland Yard.

Mr  Dratel had had told the court that he had 50 pages of notes from  meetings between Hamza and British intelligence agencies between 1997  and 2000 which had been handed to him by the UK.

Mr Dratel said this showed a ‘constant dialogue’ between them Hamza - but the jury never got to hear it.

As  a result Hamza was left claiming that he was just the ‘mouthpiece’ for  the Yemeni kidnappers and nothing else, a role he likened to that of  Gerry Adams with the IRA.

He  claimed that he tried to ‘de-escalate’ the situation and told the jury  he had nothing to do with the camp in Oregon and did not send anyone to  fight with Al Qaeda in Afghanistan.

Hamza  - who had already claimed decades of disability benefit - cost British  taxpayers millions of pounds fighting his extradition to the US but in  2012 the European Court of Human Rights ruled it could go ahead.

During  the trial there were moments of levity where Hamza displayed an offbeat  wit that was accentuated by his strong Egyptian accent.

At  one point Hamza said that changing your name in Britain was so easy  that ‘if you want to be John Travolta, you become John Travolta’.

District Judge Katherine Forrest asked: ‘And did you become John Travolta’ Hamza replied: ‘No madam’.

Among  those the jury heard from were Saajid Badat, the former Al Qaeda  operative turned British ‘Supergrass’ who told the court that he saw  Feroz Abbasi, one of Hamza’s followers, at a terrorist training camp in  Afghanistan.

There was also  moving testimony from Mary Quin, one of the Yemeni hostages who flew to  Britain and confronted Hamza at the Finsbury Park mosque in 2000 - her  interview proved to be a key piece of evidence.

Abu Hamza al-Masri was born in Alexandria, Egypt in 1958 as Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, the son of a naval officer and a primary school headmistress.

After initially studying civil engineering he entered the UK in 1979 on a student visa.

He was granted UK citizenship when he met and married his first wife, a British Muslim convert, in 1980.

Hamza has previously said she was the one who got him interested in Islam and he converted after taking time off from his job as a nightclub bouncer in London’s Soho.

As he found his new religion and his  job incompatible, he instead resumed his civil engineering studies at  Brunel University and Brighton Polytechnic, gaining a degree.

He  then divorced his first wife, the mother of his oldest son, Muhammed  Kamel, who at the age of 17 was convicted of being part of a bomb plot  in Yemen and imprisoned for three years in 1999.

He met and married his second wife in 1984 in a Muslim ceremony in London and had a further seven childen.

Heavily  influenced by the Iranian revolution, he took an interest in Islam and  politics, in particularly the occupation of Afghanistan by the Soviet  Union.

After meeting the  founder of Afghan Mujahideen in 1987, he moved to Egypt and then to Afghanistan, and it  was in the following years that he lost his hands and one eye.

Over the years, Hamza has given several different reasons  for the loss of his hands and eye. These include a road project in Pakistan, an  explosion during a de-mining project in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, fighting the jihad as a Pakistani Mujahideen, and  working with Pakistani military in Lahore when an explosives experiment  went wrong.

After spending  time in Afghanistan and Bosnia in the early 90s, he returned to Britain  and adopted a new name - Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Masri.

It was in London that Hamza began his rise to public notoriety as the Finsbury Park mosque imam, where he arrived in 1997.

One  year later, in 1998, he helped organise hostage-taking of 16 mostly  British tourists in Yemen. Three Britons and an Australian killed in  rescue mission.

In 2000, he set up a terrorist training camp in Bly,  Oregon, sending volunteers and money to Afghanistan to support al Qaeda  and the Taliban.

He firmly  placed himself on the national radar in 2001 after speaking out in  support of Osama bin Laden following the September 11 attacks.

His  inflammatory speeches led to the Charity Commission suspending him from  his position at Finsbury Park Mosque the following year.

In 2003, legal moves begin to get Hamza deported to Yemen, a move which he appealed.

In  2004 Hamza was arrested on a US extradition warrant over charges of  conspiring to take hostages in Yemen, funding terrorism, and organising a  terrorist training camp in Oregon. Charged with 15 offences under the  Terrorism Act, temporarily staying US extradition.

He was finally extradited in October 2012, and appeared in a U.S. court, indicted under the name Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, where he pleaded not guilty to terrorism charges.

Tonight,  Hamza was convicted of all 11 charges on terrorism offences at Manhattan’s Federal Court. Sentencing on September  9th.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
