
Jamaica Information / Governor General, His Excellency, the Most Hon. Sir Patrick Allen address Justices of the Peace from the parish of Westmoreland at a meeting convened by the Westmoreland Lay Magistrate's Association at the Sean Lavrey Faith Hall in Savanna−la−Mar on May 15. Photo by: JIS Photographer Governor General, His Excellency, the Most Hon. Sir Patrick Allen address Justices of the Peace from the parish of Westmoreland at a meeting convened by the Westmoreland Lay Magistrate's Association at the Sean Lavrey Faith Hall in Savanna−la−Mar on May 15. Story Highlights Governor General, His Excellency, the Most Hon. Sir Patrick Allen has challenged Justices of the Peace (JPs) in the parish of Westmoreland to join the national fight against crime. The Governor General said the time has come for all JPs and other well−thinking Jamaicans to let their voices be heard, and their presence felt in clamping down on criminality. He encouraged the JPs to be proactive in their approach to leadership, and to engage the youths in their respective communities. Governor General, His Excellency, the Most Hon. Sir Patrick Allen has challenged Justices of the Peace (JPs) in the parish of Westmoreland to join the national fight against crime.

The Governor General said the time has come for all JPs and other well−thinking Jamaicans to let their voices be heard, and their presence felt in clamping down on criminality.

Addressing a meeting of JPs at the Sean Lavrey Faith Hall in Savanna−la−Mar, Westmoreland on Thursday, May 15, he said "as Jamaicans we all have a dream to live and enjoy a good quality of life …we are going to take Jamaica back from the hands of criminals and as Justices of the Peace, you all have a role to play".

He encouraged the JPs to be proactive in their approach to leadership, and to engage the youths in their respective communities.

The Governor General also urged the 427 JPs to join his 'I believe Initiative', and to take the programme's message into their communities.

He said the 'I Believe Initiative' has been gaining traction among the youth, and that the support of the JPs will be a further boost.

The meeting between the Governor General and the Justices of the Peace was convened by the parish's Lay Magistrate Association, led by President Colin Hitchman.
