
According to reports, an Ontario-based power company wants to store millions of cubic feet of radioactive material underground less than a quarter mile from the water.

The move is stoking fears among Michigan residents who not only use the lake for fishing and recreation, but also rely on it as a source of drinking water.

This is Pat Szot's favorite time of year. She gets to spend it fishing on Lake Huron in Port Sanilac. She said there is nothing quite like being outdoors near the shore.

"The blues skies, the clean water, the good fish," Szot said.

The idea of Lake Huron being contaminated by nuclear waste makes her mad.

"This is what Michigan is all about, about fishing and Pure Michigan and to dump nuclear waste, that's uncalled for," she said.

That's what could happen. Canadian officials have a proposal on the table to create a nuclear waste dump near the shore of Lake Huron directly across the lake from residents of Clair, Sanilac and Huron counties, part of state Sen. Mike Green's district.

"We have the greatest natural resources attraction of any state in the nation. We sell more hunting licenses, fishing licenses, we have more people that visit here on a regular basis than any other in the nation. We don't want to lose that," Green said.

About 53,000 containers of nuclear waste would be buried about less than a quarter mile from Lake Huron. Michigan lawmakers said they will do whatever they can to make the Great Lakes contamination free.

Green along with other lawmakers met to discuss a plan of action on Monday.

"We know it has been going on for a while and they are going through the process in Canada, but we just feel like it's about time we got involved in it and encourage folks here in Michigan and encourage our congressional delegation to take a look at it and say is this really what we want our Great Lakes to do," Green said.

Szot said she hopes they are successful.

"This is what we enjoy. This is what Michigan is about. I think it would be a disaster," she said.

Copyright 2014 WNEM (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.

A Greenville County sheriff's deputy has been placed on administrative leave after he was seen forcefully subduing a man inside an Upstate Walmart on Saturday, according to Master Deputy Jonathan Smith.

A Mid-Michigan native has been arrested in Wisconsin in connection with a double homicide.

Police are looking for the man who allegedly assaulted a Frankenmuth woman in her home.

A Bristol woman is accused of leaving her 2-year-old child in the car at a local bar.

All content © 2014, WNEM; Saginaw, MI. (A Meredith Corporation Station) and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.
