
The holiday weekend has once again kept police busy in the Wasaga Beach area, particularly with drug-related arrests.

OPP Const. Mark Kinney told CBC News police have been seeing the same types of bad behaviours they see in a typical long weekend.

Kinney said that the community welcomes its visitors, but those visitors are expected to behave themselves.

"We really try and emphasize for them to respect the community," he said.

Kinney did not have a tally for the total number of arrests in Wasaga Beach this weekend, though he believed it may be a slightly lower tally than last year.

At 7:25 a.m., police say they spotted two males acting "suspiciously" in the area of Main and Beck streets. The 20-year-old men, both from Woodbridge, were allegedly in possession of marijuana. Both face a possession charge.

Just over 12 hours later, police stopped a vehicle during a RIDE check on Main Street, at which point an officer detected the odour of marijuana. It is alleged that the driver was found to be in possession of marijuana. A 52-year-old Thornhill man was charged with possession.

At 10:30 p.m., police say they stopped a vehicle they believed had attempted to avoid a RIDE check. Three Brampton men inside the vehicle were found in possession of marijuana, police say. Two 18-year-olds and a 19-year-old each face a possession charge.

Police say that at 1:30 a.m., they received a report of a group of seven to 10 males involved in a fight outside a business on Mosley Street. Responding officers "deescalated the situation" and arrested a man with a knife. A 22-year-old St. Catharines man faces a charge of possession of a weapon for dangerous purpose.

A couple of hours later, at approximately 3:30 a.m., police were called to a campground on River Road West, where staff had allegedly apprehended a youth with drugs. The OPP allege that the teen had both "numerous" MDMA tablets and some marijuana in his possession. A 17-year-old Halton Hills male faces a possession charge, as well as a possession for the purpose charge.

In the mid-afternoon, police say they received a report about an intoxicated woman, who was near one of the beach areas. It is alleged that the woman was in possession of cocaine. A 22-year-old Brampton woman faces a possession charge, as well as a charge of possession for the purpose.

At about 4 p.m., a woman was waiting to enter an event on Beach Drive. An officer believed the woman was intoxicated and arrested her. She was taken for treatment at an onsite medical tent. But police allege she became impatient and ended up kicking a second officer who came to assist "several times in the lower body area." An 18-year-old Wasaga Beach woman has been charged with assaulting a peace officer.

At 8:45 p.m., police say that a vehicle was spotted speeding along Mosley Street. Police soon caught up with the vehicle and charged the driver. A 25-year-old woman from Essa Township has been charged with impaired operation of a motor vehicle.

The OPP say that a male came into a police station at 12:30 a.m. to visit someone in a cell. Police believed the visitor was intoxicated. A further investigation determined that he was in possession of marijuana. A 21-year-old Scarborough man now faces a charge of possession.
