
A series of brilliant but short ads by a kitchen appliance maker are almost lost in the deluge of gender-biased product placement on mainstream media. But Havells seems to be doing something right. Social media is abuzz with discussions about the Havells ads that ask users to 'respect women.'

Several situations in which women find themselves playing regressive roles every day come up in these ads, and often they are the target of subtle sexist bias from a close family member. How they deal with it forms the crux of the ads.

The advertisements are not subtle either. Sometimes you have to be crude to fight traditional patriarchy. In one ad, a wife serves her husband a helping of idli and sambhar. The husband callously complains that his mother would have made 'chutney' as well. His wife gets up and coolly places a mixer in front of him, telling him to make the chutney himself. Any of the 25 kinds he likes. 'Patni', she says pointing at herself, and 'chutney', at the mixer.

Social media is abuzz with discussions about the Havells ads that ask users to 'respect women.'

In another one, a potential match-making goes downhill when the groom's mother comments that her son, settled abroad, would finally have someone to make him coffee. The would-be bride places a coffee maker in front of him and suggests that he should marry that instead if he wanted someone to make him his coffee.

It's a choice, Havells says, between chutney and 'patni' (wife) and 'stree' (wife) and 'istree' (the Hindi word for an iron). But not everyone's thrilled with the ads. A Twitter user commented that the ads are the work of "under-sexed feminists", whatever that means.

The ads will not turn around the way women are treated in male-dominated households in wide stretches of the country's hinterland. But it will generate discussion, as it has, and at least help women challenge chauvinism.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
