
An Early Double Dissolution? Don't Hold Your Breath!

The tedious topic of a double dissolution seems to be doing the rounds again. In particular, there seems to be quite a lot of badly informed commentary on political blog sites on how a double dissolution would be brought on.

Let me quote one website commentator who manages to encapsulate these misunderstandings in two sentences.

"There will be a DD in early 2015 whether Abbott wants it or not (he very unlikely to want it as by then 2PP polling will be something like 60-40 against him!). Shorten will deny him supply, and rightly so."

This comment is wrong for two fundamental constitutional reasons. First, a Prime Minister may choose to call a double dissolution election but they cannot be forced to call one. Second, you cannot get a double dissolution from blocking a supply bill, though a government may choose to call a double dissolution on other grounds because supply is blocked.

So let me go through the mechanism of a double dissolution and also clear up this issue with supply bills.

The key point to make is that a double dissolution of the House and the whole Senate, followed by an election and possibly a joint sitting, is a significant constitutional event, not some euphemism for an early election.

The double dissolution mechanism is set out in section 57 of the Constitution. It was drafted and endlessly debated in the 1890s constitutional conventions. It was a constitutional mechanism that allowed a government with a majority in the House of Representatives to overcome the blocking power of the Senate.

The need for some method to resolve deadlocks between the House and Senate was created by the decision to give the Senate virtually co-equal powers with the House, something that was unworkable under the Westminster model of responsible government unless a deadlock provision was provided.

As it was envisaged, Section 57 was a mechanism that would allow the population of the larger states as represented by the majority government in the House of Representatives to overcome the blocking power of the smaller states in the Senate. While the Senate never became the state assembly imagined by the constitutional drafters, the double dissolution power was still an important mechanism and has been used six times.

The double dissolution power is unique to the Commonwealth constitution. It was a power created for the Governor-General to use in their name, not as the representative of the Queen. It is a power created by the Constitution and is not a reserve power inherited from the British Monarch.

A bill must first pass the house and then be rejected, fail to pass or be unacceptably amended by the Senate.

After a period of three months, the bill may be re-presented to the House. After its passage through then House, if it is again rejected, fails to pass or is unacceptably amended by the Senate, then the legislation has become a 'trigger' for a double dissolution.

The Prime Minister may choose to use one or more triggers as ground for a double dissolution of both chambers followed by an election for the House and the whole Senate. This is not allowed to take place in the last six months of the House's term.

After the election the legislation must be presented to the new House, and after its passage, must be presented to the new Senate.

If the Senate again rejects, fails to pass or unacceptably amends the legislation, then the Prime Minister can request that the Governor-General summon a joint sitting of the two chambers sitting and voting as one on the legislation. At the joint sitting, a simple majority of those members and senators present can pass the legislation which is then signed into law by the Governor General. A legislative (as opposed to ceremonial) joint sitting cannot occur without a double dissolution election having first taken place, and no other legislation can be considered at a joint sitting.

The originally drafted Section 57 contained a requirement that three-fifths support was required for a bill to pass at a joint sitting. This was part of the draft constitution that failed to pass in NSW at the 1898 referendum. NSW Premier George Reid had the provisioned weakened to requiring a simple majority, one of several changes that strengthened the power of the Commonwealth government and the power of the larger states and led to the acceptance of the Constitution at a second referendum in 1899.

This mechanism can be used for normal legislation but is almost impossible to be used in relation to appropriation and supply bills.

The term 'supply' has a specific meaning for the parliament, but in its common use means the main Appropriation Bills that sets out how much money has been set aside for the normal working of each department in the next 12 months.

The current appropriation bills were introduced with the budget speech last Tuesday. They specify how much money each government department can spend between 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015. These bills are in the process of passing the House, will soon go to the Senate, and have to be passed by by both houses before 30 June this year or government will cease to function on 1 July.

That is why the blockage of the Appropriation bill cannot be a trigger for a double dissolution. As currently formulated, it is not possible for the Appropriation bills to be defeated and the parliament come back and debate them again in three months time. The government would have run out of money by then.

Budgets usually include other pieces of legislation covering detail of the budget. For instance the current budget will require legislation or regulation changes that cover pensions, tax rates, Medicare and the like. Any legislation of this type could be used as a double dissolution trigger after a second blockage, though regulation disallowance couldn't. Oppositions tend to be selective in deciding which budget measures to oppose, the least popular measures being least likely to become double dissolution triggers.

Unless there is other legislation that the government can use as a trigger to obtain a double dissolution, the blockage of supply can only force a House of Representatives election. There is no ability for the blockage of Appropriation bills as currently formulated to be used as a double dissolution trigger.

The answer is that both of those double dissolutions had a background in the blockage of supply or appropriation bills, but in both cases it was triggers created by other blocked legislation that permitted double dissolutions to take place.

A key point of difference between today and the Whitlam government is the timing of the budget. Today the budget is in May and the appropriation bills cover the whole of the next financial year. Until the mid-1980s the budget was in August, and what is more correctly known as a 'supply' bill was passed in May to authorize government expenditure between 1 July and 30 November, pending the passage of the budget.

In 1974 it was the blockage of the interim supply bill that saw Gough Whitlam advise for a double dissolution based on six other pieces of legislation. Whitlam warned the Senate he would do this if it blocked supply, and the holding of the election was made easier as the election replaced an already announced separate half-Senate election.

In 1975, the Opposition controlled Senate deferred the passage of the budget bills, demanding the government first announce the holding of an election. The government had interim supply to get it through to 30 November, perhaps longer if it saved money on its spending.

In the end the Governor-General Sir John Kerr intervened to resolve the on-going deadlock before the supply period ran out. He appointed Opposition Leader Malcolm Fraser as Prime Minister, who promptly authorized his Senate members to pass the budget, and then requested a double dissolution based on other Whitlam government legislation. The subsequent Fraser government made no attempt to revive the legislation used as the basis for the double dissolution.

If the budget bills had not been passed by the Senate on 11 November 1975, then Kerr and Fraser would have been in a very messy constitutional pickle by being unable to fund the holding of an election. But that is a scenario for alternative histories rather than relevant to today.

For historical reasons I do not believe the Labor Party will even consider blocking the appropriation Bills. The Labor Party has demonized conservative controlled upper houses that blocked supply against Labor governments in Tasmania in 1925 and 1947, the Cain Labor government in Victoria in 1947, and the Whitlam government in 1974 and 1975.

That using upper houses to block supply and bring on an election is a last resort weapon can be shown by the reticence of Coalition controlled Legislative Councils in the early 1990s to block supply and bring down the Lawrence Labor government in WA or Kirner Labor government in Victoria.

The only time the Labor Party has voted against supply in an upper house in a situation where it would bring down a government was in Victoria in 1952, and that was a much more complex case involving a government that also lacked a lower house majority.

First, if the government chose to call an election of any sort, an interim supply bill would have to be passed allowing government to continue functioning from 1 July until a new parliament could convene.

When the Hawke government announced its intention to call a double dissolution election for early July 1987, it had to continue with the sitting of parliament until supply had been passed to cover the period until after the election.

But what election could the government call? At this stage the only option is for a separate House election. There couldn't be a half-Senate election and there could not be a double dissolution because no trigger exists that would permit Section 57 to come into play.

Of these bills, the only one that has passed back through the House and been re-presented to the Senate is the Clean Energy Finance Corporation (Abolition) Bill 2013. If this were defeated in the next month, it would permit the calling of a double dissolution once interim supply was arranged.

But using this bill as a double dissolution trigger would be the Prime Minister's choice. If supply was blocked and the government was forced to an election, the Prime Minister could call a House election. Even if the Prime Minister had a double dissolution trigger, it is his choice to use it. The government can be forced to an election but it can't be forced to a double dissolution.

But two final political points also need to be kept in mind.

First, any attempt to hold a double dissolution under the Senate's current electoral system would be almost impossible. There would be even more parties and candidates contesting given the near halving of the quota for election. There will not be another election until changes are made to the Senate's electoral system. Those changes can be legislated quickly but will need time to be implemented before an election can be held.

A second political point is that the Abbott government's budget is not the sort of budget you introduce if you desire an early election. It is the classic tough first term budget introduced in the hope that in three years time the anger will have subsided and the economy and budget would be in a better position.

So everyone should just calm down and understand that in all likelihood the current government will be in place until the second half of 2016.

Even if the government gets multiple double dissolution triggers, it will not use those triggers unless it thinks it can win the subsequent election.

It is noteworthy that having floated the idea of a double dissolution last week, the government has quickly talked down the suggestion.

In my opionion there is not going to be a double dissolution in the near future, and even in the more distant future, I cannot see any possibility of a double dissolution before late 2015 or the first months of 2016. Even then, a double dissolution will not occur unless the government thinks it will win.

Thanks Antony for providing this explanation. I have long understood the process of a DD but obviously there are many out there who don't. Apart from the constitutional and procedural reasons, politically Abbott would not dare bring it on following the polls and other events today.

COMMENT: Blocking supply would rather make the Labor Party look like hypocrites given its view in the illegitimacy of how the Whitlam government was brought down. No opposition party with hopes of being in government in the future would go down the path of blocking supply without seriously thinking about the precedent set for the next time it is in government.

Antony, I don't agree that the fourth of your dot points is required under s57. For example, if the government was to lose a DD - the new government would not need to present the legislation.

COMMENT: The same applies for a government re-elected after a double dissolution. If you want a joint sitting you must re-present the legislation. If you don't want a joint sitting you don't re-present the legislation. In the case of Menzies in 1951, he re-presented the legislation but didn't need a joint sitting because the Senate passed it.

Thanks Antony.

COMMENT: It has only ever happened once Federally, in 1975. A half-Senate election can only be held in the last 12 months of a Senate's term. The Senate cannot be dissolved as a whole expect by a double dissolution. You can't get a double dissolution by blocking supply. If the blocking of supply forces an election in the first two years of a term, and there is no double dissolution trigger, then the only option is a separate House election.

Thanks for your answer Antony.

COMMENT: The 2nd paragraph of Section 13 of the Constitution specifies that a Senate election cannot be held until 12 months before the end of the Senate term. As long as elections for the two houses remain in sync, then in rough terms you can't have a half-Senate election in the first two years of a Parliamentary term, which means a House-only election is the only option for an early election.

COMMENT: No. It is done on advice. The next step after the double dissolution would be to issue writs, and the Governor-General cannot issue writs without advice from the executive council, which would be a terrible pickle if the G-G issued the dissolution without advice.The clear comparison is with 1975, when Sir John Kerr appointed a new Prime Minister to offer the advice.he clearly wanted to receive, but in the end he acted on advice on the dissolution.

* NT in August,

* the Census will also be around mid-late 2016 as well.

I think I remember reading that the next federal has to be before early 2017, but I can't imagine it will go that late.

Thanks!

COMMENT: I'd expect the election to be held in October or November 2016.

Hey, just wanted to thank Antony for writing something genuinely informative.

I turned up about on par with the person Antony quoted, read the article, and left with an actual understanding rather than the opinion of the day.

I mean, it had his opinions as well, but it had actual substance.

Thanks again.

P.S. I have to admit, I was really hoping there would be a DD election. Ah well, another time.

COMMENT: Blocking supply would rather make the Labor Party look like hypocrites given its view in the illegitimacy of how the Whitlam government was brought down. No opposition party with hopes of being in government in the future would go down the path of blocking supply without seriously thinking about the precedent set for the next time it is in government.

Blocking other changes is like blocking normal legislation. Each could be a trigger for a double dissolution depending on whether the government went through the mechanism of re-introducing defeated legislation. The government could save up such triggers and use them sometime up until May 2016. I think an election this year highly unlikely.

Thanks Antony,

Later other legislation could be blocked, but not it's supply.

COMMENT: It could but I don't think it's necessary. I don't think anyone would block supply.

COMMENT: It could, though it seems odd to have the Senate force an election without itself facing election. I do not believe that supply will be blocked.

Antony, there is precisely -one- person in Parliament who served in Parliament during the Whitlam years - Ruddock. Another one who entered Parliament 14 years later, in 1987. After that, it's all 1990+ for today's Parliamentarians.

Do you really think that Labor particularly cares about 1975 anymore....or that anyone else on the street does? Whatever the rights or wrongs of Kerr's actions, Whitlam lost his job before I was born, and I've been voting for over a decade!

If the poll numbers keep looking this bad for the Abbott Government in general and this Budget in particular, why -wouldn't- the Opposition keep blocking it? Likewise the Greens and PUP....they've little to lose given how disastrous 2013 was for the parties of the Left, and all to gain. Particularly with the way the new Senate voting rules are being designed to screw the PUP's chances of election.

And I'd like to point out that the Constitution *explicitly* states (section 64) that Ministers serve at the GG's pleasure. Not the GG in council...the GG. And I strongly suspect that today's textualist High Court would back the GG if the (ex) PM he sacked went to them, asking for reinstatement.

In at least some ways, 1975 set a precedent. In the absence of supply, the Governor-General *can* sack the PM...and make it stick.

COMMENT: I would be stunned if the opposition in the Senate tried to block supply and engaged in a re-run of 1975, though any re-run would be different because it would be known that a Governor-General could sack the government. The 1975 constitutional crisis should remain an extra-ordinary event, not an ordinary part of the political process.

Isn't there also the option of a motion of No Confidence and can you please explain this as well?  Thanks.

COMMENT: Given the government holds a clear majority of votes in the House of Representatives, there is no way it could lose a vote of no confidence.

I hope for a double dissolution election but only for the purpose of getting the House and Senate back into better alignment. It is patently ridiculous for the government to have to wait nearly 12 months for the new Senate to take effect after an election.

COMMENT: Not really, and it would also mean the next election would have to be held early.

COMMENT: There is no legal or constitutional way you can make such a complaint.

Hi Antony, great article. Most informative.

Apologies if I sound ignorant. But I just wanted to know. You say that if Labor goes against history and votes with the Greens to block supply, and an interim supply bill is passed allowing the government to continue to function, then the government could call a separate House of Representatives election, but not a double dissolution as there are no triggers that would permit Section 57 to come into play. However there are several pieces of legislation that could become triggers for a DD in the next month, but even if these were defeated in the Senate, it's the PM's choice whether to call for a DD or not. And you're saying that this is unlikely as the government's budget is a tough budget (and therefore not popular with the voters).

However, you say that if supply was blocked and the government was forced to an election, the Prime Minister could call a House election. "The government can be forced to an election but it can't be forced to a double dissolution," you say.

I appreciate your enlightening me on this matter.

COMMENT: Yes, a House election could be forced by blocking the budget. The opposition parties have until 30 June to do this. I am absolutely certain that this will NOT happen.

Thanks for your reply, Antony.

COMMENT: The blocking of supply/appropriation bills has only happened twice in Commonwealth history, in 1974 and 1975, and has not happened in a state since 1952.

The public voted in a new House, Senate and government last September. Until 30 June 2014 the Labor Party and the Greens have the ability to block supply based on Senators elected in November 2007. Those numbers change on 1 July. It would be an act of hypocrisy, indeed of constitutional vandalism, to use the positions of out-going Senators elected six and a half years ago to block supply and create a constitutional impasse that none of those Senators could be held accountable for.

Thanks Antony, yes, I see your point. It's almost unprecedented isn't it, save for that historic time in 1974 and 1975 when the blocking of supply resulted in both houses of Parliament being dissolved. And also, as you say, new Senators have been elected as well, it wouldn't be right if the current Senators did something that will have such major consequences.

I wonder if there's a precedent for when only the lower house election was called resulting in a change in government in Australia? I don't believe that I've ever heard of that happening before.

The makeup of the new Senate from 1 July also means that the macroparties will hold the balance of power as well. So if Labor & the Greens wanted to block supply, they'd need the votes of at least 4 of those senators is that correct? PUP has 3 Senators, and the other 4 macroparties have 1 each, and there's independent Nick Xenophon. The Coalition would need the votes of 9 other Senators to get their legislation passed.

It's just that this government's budget is so comprehensive in its changes that it's going to make to Australia's social democratic model and is so widely condemned due to its negative impact on so many people especially the most disadvantaged and marginalised in our society (not to mention that I feel that this government obtained its position by deceit) that I feel that a change in government may perhaps be the best answer to satisfy the huge and growing concerns of the public. And it looks to me that a House of Reps election can make this happen, without affecting the Senate and the new Senators coming in on the 1st of July.

Looking forward to more enlightenment from you.

COMMENT: A budget is presented in May each year and it must pass by 30 June or supply is denied. The new Senate will be able to vote in this manner with both the 2015 and 2016 budgets. As I have said, I think it highly unlikely that the Labor Party would go against its history and vote to block supply.

Any other legislation can be blocked or amended by the Senate, and if the government chooses to re-present the legislation and the Senate again blocks or amends the legislation, then the government would have a trigger which it would be permitted to request a a double dissolution. However, the decision to call a double dissolution is entirely a matter for the Prime Minister of the day. Unless there is a blockage of supply, a government could not be forced to call a double dissolution.

" It would be an act of hypocrisy, indeed of constitutional vandalism, to use the positions of out-going Senators elected six and a half years ago to block supply and create a constitutional impasse that none of those Senators could be held accountable for. "

"There is no legal or constitutional way you can make such a complaint."

The next time a government that is not wilfully despicable comes into power, I do seriously hope a law can be introduced that forbids politicians and electoral candidates from directly lying to the public.

Hypocrisy indeed.

COMMENT:Elected members of parliament are held accountable by their electorates at the next election.

Looking at the provided link to the APH website, there are 14 "potential trigger's" listed.

Just curious of the workings of it all.

COMMENT: The page you mention is 'potential' triggers. None of these are yet a trigger. All legislation that has met the requirements to be a double dissolution can be listed on the Prime Minister's request to the Governor General for a double dissolution. The Prime Minister can choose not to list a bill that has met the requirements for a double dissolution, but that means it cannot be presented to a possible joint sitting. Only the legislation listed as justification for the double dissolution can be presented to a joint sitting.

Thanks for your answers, Antony. I've received word from QLD Labor Senator Claire Moore that Labor does not intend to block supply, exactly as you say, however they will reject many of the unfair cuts.

It's interesting that Tony Abbott is saying at the moment that he won't back down from his budget's measures, and he's "confident the government would get the budget through the Senate in the end" according to The Guardian (24/5).

Antony, I'd also asked you about the Senate forcing the PM to call a House election alone, which I'd appreciate an answer to. Let's say if Labor goes against history and the Senate blocks supply - if the government keeps refusing to accept any amendments for example, as seems to be Abbott's position at the moment - is it possible for the PM to be forced to call a separate House of Representatives election alone? You wrote, "If supply was blocked and the government was forced to an election, the Prime Minister could call a House election." So not a double dissolution of Parliament, but only a House of Reps election. You mentioned that the PM could be forced to do that. Unlike a DD, where it's his choice to call one or not.

I'm asking if such a scenario is indeed possible and also constitutional. The Senate would be left as is, unchanged, while we go to an election for the House of Representatives to determine who the government is once more. Forget about the DD. Just a House of Reps election.

Love to hear your thoughts, as per usual!

COMMENT: If a parliament denies a government supply, then the issue has to be resolved. The Governor-General acting to dismiss the government wouldn't work without an election also being called, as occurred in 1975. Given the 1975 precedent, in the end the government would not allow itself to be sacked and would instead call an election itself. If a DD trigger exists, the election could be a double dissolution. If there is no trigger, any election would have to be a house only election.

But none of this will happen. The opposition and cross bench members may amend or defeat other legislation related to the budget, but they won't block the appropriation bills.

Has Labor ever blocked supply or has it always been the sole deed of conservative parties? Labor could make an exception in this regard citing a vile budget and a catalogue of broken pre election promises.

COMMENT: There have been only two instances where Federal supply has been blocked, 1974 and 1975, both times by Coalition oppositions.

As far as I know, the only time Labor has blocked a budget and brought down a government was in Victoria in 1952. However, that was a very complex situation where there was a revolving door on government and the government whose budget was blocked didn't have the numbers to pass it in the house either.

Not sure if I correctly understand. If though, by blocking the supply bill and having a house election called, even though it may be hypocrisy and constitutional vandalism, given the support for Labor and the now lack of support for the coalition, it would seem like the quickest way for Labor to be re-elected as government of our nation (although a somewhat backhanded way of achieving it).

COMMENT: It will not happen. Labor will not block supply. It would be utterly at odds with principles the party has held for 120 years.

A Prime Minister with the confidence of the House can request an election for the House whenever they wish, and if there is no alternative Prime Minister that the Governor General could appoint to offer different advice, then the Governor General would normally grant the request for a House election.

However, the Constitution prevents a half-Senate election being held before August 2016, so any election before than would have to be a separate House election or a double dissolution election. If no double dissolution trigger exists, then the only option is a separate House election.

COMMENT: Sections 53-56 of the constitution set out detail on what can and cannot be included in appropriation and tax bills. In summary an appropriation bill simply sets out the money appropriated for each government function. If this requires changes to levels of taxation then separate legislation is required and this is not part of appropriation. A budget is a whole series of different pieces of legislation.
