
A letter from a Tennessee Deputy Attorney General noted two practical, procedural errors with a recent records request submitted to the Board of Professional Responsibility of the Tennessee Supreme Court, but left a door open for further questions of law, jurisdiction, and state employee competence.

ABC’s “Nashville” may have put the Music City back on the map, but don’t shine the spotlight on the Supreme Court, say government bodies.

The very day after United Liberty published a story last week on the Board of Professional Responsibility of the Tennessee Supreme Court’s denial of my lawful request for copies of records relating to an investigation of the sitting Chief Justice Gary R. Wade’s professional ethics, and my subsequent discovery that an appellate court judge in 2013 seems to have presumptively and unilaterally exempted the judiciary from the state’s Public Records Act without statutory or constitutional authority to do so, Deputy Attorney General Janet Kleinfelter sent a letter to me via email. Deputy General Kleinfelter’s letter notes two practical, procedural errors with my original request, but she did little to alleviate concerns of foul play in the judiciary that arose out of the original document request process and subsequent correspondence with Tennessee’s Open Records Counsel Elisha Hodge.

After the Board denied my original request, I sought an advisory opinion from Counsel Hodge to resolve the disparity between the provisions of both the Public Records Act and the Tennessee Constitution, and the Board’s denial of my request, which cited the Tennessee Supreme Court’s own rules as authority to withhold access to and copies of the documents I requested. Counsel Hodge declined to issue an advisory opinion in this matter, and instead forwarded my original request and request for advisory opinion to Deputy General Kleinfelter, who handles issues related to public records on behalf of the state in the Public Interest Division of the Office of the Attorney General.

As I noted last week, the Deputy Attorney General has previously represented the Board in at least one other case in which it had denied access to records to a Tennessee citizen. She also currently serves in the Office of the Attorney General; Tennessee is the only state in the U.S. whose Supreme Court appoints the Attorney General .

The Board of Professional Responsibility is not the custodian of the documents I sought in my original request.

The upshot of these observations is that I sent my request for records associated with an investigation into Chief Justice Wade’s ethical conduct to the wrong office. Most people arrived at this point would wipe the proverbial egg off their face and excuse themselves from the table. But Kleinfelter’s letter raised more questions than it answered.

Scroll to the bottom of this post or click here to read correspondence between Deputy Attorney General Janet Kleinfelter and Scoville, including Kleinfelter’s letter responding to Scoville’s original request to the Board for records related to Chief Justice Wade’s ethics investigation and request to Counsel Hodge for advisory opinion on the Board’s denial of the original request.

Charitably, it may also be the case that Deputy Chief Disciplinary Counsel Vick receives and replies to so many requests for records under the Public Records Act that he did not read mine carefully, and sent a knee-jerk, canned reply. But that only reinforces the notion that Deputy General Kleinfelter’s letter raises more questions than it answers, and also suggests an instinct within the Board, and within the Supreme Court more broadly, of retreating to secrecy whenever it receives a records request — a position which runs contrary to both the letter and spirit of both statute and the state constitution.

Except for hearings conducted pursuant to Tenn. Code Ann. § 17-5-308 or sanctions required to be public, matters that come before the Board are confidential.

…if it becomes apparent that allegations of misconduct by a judge have become a matter of public record independent of any action by the Board and that continued silence by the Board may be detrimental to the public interest, may lead to bringing the judiciary into public disrepute or may adversely affect the administration of justice, the chairperson in his or her discretion may 1) confirm that an investigation is in progress, 2) clarify the procedural aspect of any proceedings, and 3) explain the rights of the subject of the investigation to a fair hearing without prejudgment.

So the Board of Judicial Conduct, at the sole discretion of the chairperson, will disclose (a) whether or not there is an investigation, (b) what steps are being taken in an investigation, and (c) what rights the judge being investigated has to ensure fair treatment, and only then if (d) withholding the information creates an appearance of impropriety, (e) harms the public interest, or (f) inhibits justice. How convenient. Regardless of the arbitrary whims of the chairperson, or the lack of broader specifications for determining if a request meets these criteria, none of the power the Board asserts in Rule 8 falls within the list of 33 statutory exemptions to the Public Records Act. Despite that evident truth, I predict that the Board, confident of its own supremacy and infallibility on matters such as these, will deny my request.

Nevertheless, today I am sending my original request for these records to Timothy R. Discenza, Disciplinary Counsel of the Board of Judicial Conduct of the Supreme Court of Tennessee. I will continue to publish developments in this matter as they occur. I am also still searching for counsel willing to work pro bono, or from a public interest firm, who can help me pursue these questions and, if necessary, litigate my claims to my constitutional right to examine these documents. If you are one, or know one, please contact me at my personal website . In the meantime, like last week, please help me share this blog post on Twitter, Facebook, and your own blogs to get this story out. I’m told Tennesseeans have been fighting the Board of Judicial Conduct on transparency issues for literally decades, and it’s high time the government opened up. Anything less would be, as James Madison once put it, a tragedy or a farce (or both).

Privacy Policy | © 2005-2009 UnitedLiberty.org. All rights reserved.
