
General Motors Company CEO Mary Barra testifies during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on Capitol Hill, on April 1, 2014 in Washington, DC.

In the face of a spreading defect-liability crisis, General Motors ( GM ) can’t seem to get its story straight. The company is struggling to clarify whether it wants to apologize to consumers, mollify regulators, or shout down plaintiffs’ attorneys.

The old public-relations formula—plaintiffs’ lawyers try cases in the media; corporate executives and their defense attorneys stonewall—is a thing of the past. Barra took over as GM’s new CEO in January. Almost immediately she was hit by cringe-inducing revelations related to ignition-switch defects and other flaws in GM’s vehicles.

I chatted with Hoeflich in anticipation of a conference next month in Chicago on complex litigation  where we’re both speaking. Others expected at the gathering include such prominent plaintiffs’ attorneys as Elizabeth Cabraser of Lieff Cabraser Heimann & Bernstein in San Francisco and Christopher Seeger of New York’s Seeger Weiss. The fact that defense attorneys and their corporate clients show up at this kind of event illustrates the erosion of traditional dichotomies on litigation strategy and tactics. “Communicating publicly has become a tool for both sides,” Hoeflich says.

“For anything you say or do, ask yourself how you would react if it was reported in a major newspaper or on television,” the presentation instructed. GM’s training materials “explicitly discouraged” employees from using words like “defect, dangerous, safety related, and many more essential terms for engineers and investigators to clearly communicate up the chain when they suspect a problem,” NHTSA Acting Administrator David Friedman said.

When a corporation is obfuscating in private discussions among employees and managers, it’s unlikely it’ll be successful in dealing forthrightly with customers or the public at large. As Barra says, GM is going through what educators call a teachable moment.

Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Thank you for subscribing to our Daily Newsletter. You will receive a confirmation email shortly at .
