
WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22) today applauded the House for passing his bill H.R. 1209, which will award a Congressional Gold Medal to the World War II Doolittle Tokyo Raiders for their heroic B-25 bomber attack on Japan in response to Pearl Harbor. The bill was passed by Unanimous Consent in the House. The bill now heads to the Senate for passage.

"The heroism of these Doolittle Raiders was a critical turning point in World War II," Olson said. "These eighty brave Americans volunteered for this mission with zero knowledge of what it would entail and willingly put their lives in harm's way, risking death, capture, and torture to bring the fight to the Japanese homeland.

"The actions of Jimmy Doolittle and his Tokyo Raiders forged an enduring example of heroism in the face of uncertainty for the Army Air Corps of the Second World War and America as a whole. I'm proud that the House acted to help me honor their heroism by awarding these heroes the Congressional Gold Medal," Olson concluded.

On April 18, 1942, Lt. Col. Jimmy Doolittle led seventy-nine airmen flying sixteen B-25 bombers on a daring and unprecedented attack on the Japanese mainland to avenge the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor four months earlier. The bombers took off from the Navy aircraft carrier USS Hornet in the western Pacific, struck their targets, and then made their way as best they could to friendly forces in China. Carrying limited fuel, fifteen of the aircraft crash-landed or ditched at sea, with one landing in Soviet Russia. Three Raiders were killed during the crash-landings, five were interned by the Soviets for a year until they were able to escape, and eight were captured by Japanese forces. These prisoners were brutally tortured, one died of disease, and three were executed. Seventy-three of the eighty Raiders who embarked from the USS Hornet returned home from the raid; all eighty of them will be remembered forever as true American heroes.

There are only four surviving members of the Doolittle Raiders: Lt. Col. Richard E. Cole of Texas (Jimmy Doolittle's co-pilot); Lt. Col. Robert L. Hite of Tennessee; Lt. Col. Edward J. Saylor of Washington; and Staff Sergeant David J. Thatcher of Montana. The Congressional Gold Medal will be available for display at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force in Dayton, Ohio.

Posted in Opinion on Monday, May 19, 2014 5:33 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
