
“Waiting for death is the most difficult,” said a survivor of the Soma mining disaster. He was rescued within six to seven hours of the catastrophe and watched several of his coworkers die from the deadly gases. The survivor continued: “Some were shivering, others were saying shahadateen (Muslim prayer right before death), we prayed.” Every religion and culture has its rituals of respecting death. When the news of the Soma mine explosion broke , the government immediately deployed 80 imams from Manisa province (Soma is a town in Manisa). Ali Kenanoglu, head of the Hubyar Sultan Alevi Culture Association, penned a column for Evrensel daily explaining that the Directorate of Religious Affairs — operating under the prime minister’s office — assigned 500 imams to Soma along with 10 psychologists. The number raised concerns as the number of imams exceed the number of deaths, now put at 301.

Summary ⎙ Print The AKP mobilized 500 imams along with strict security measures to deal with the disaster-stricken mining town of Soma.

In addition,  Minister of Energy Taner Yildiz  was seen on camera  greeting a delegation of senior imams . These imams were members of a prominent religious group, Ismailaga Cemaati. Yeni Akit, a conservative daily, reported that Ismailaga Cemaati sent 50 imams to Soma. In addition, the Ministry of Education approved that the Imam Hatip (Religious Vocational) schools all around the country read the Quran and prayed for Soma victims and families. It was mind-boggling to view pro-government TV channels during the peak of search and rescue operations reporting the prayer sessions of various religious groups.

Since the army of imams has not been completely effective in calming people and keeping them off the streets, the government has utilized its security forces in full and brought in reinforcements from neighboring provinces . Several lawyers, along with protesters, have been detained; many were injured by water and gas cannons . Finally, all journalists who did not have the government-issued official press card were asked to leave town. This was referred to as a “gag order” because the government has much to hide in Soma. That said, all around the country protests were intense and just like in the Gezi protests, excessive police brutality was reported.

The last group is sometimes referred as “liberals” in Turkish rhetoric as well. The Soma disaster cuts through all official rhetoric that several “lobbies” are in a coup attempt against Erdogan. It demonstrates the deep vulnerabilities of the AKP, which prides itself on the country's economic progress.

An official declaration that the Soma victims are “civilian martyrs” can be viewed as a hopeful step for the mourners; however, state-sanctioned declarations do not necessarily guarantee martyrdom in Islam. Those who await death in the mines may resort to religion as a comfort, but those alive seek an explanation from the AKP, which has a track record of escaping accountability.

Al-Monitor brings together top journalists from across the Middle East. Including Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria and Turkey. Plus, we have daily translations from 20 major news organizations in the region.

Stay connected. Sign up for our daily newsletter.
