
His Shiite-dominated political bloc emerges firmly in first place in country’s first parliamentary elections since U.S. military withdrawal in 2011.

Iraqi police officers patrol on foot in central Baghdad on Monday. The Iraqi government has tightened  security measures after releasing the results of the country’s parliamentary elections.

BAGHDAD—Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki moved closer to winning a third term Monday, with his Shiite-dominated political bloc emerging in the lead as preliminary results of the country’s first parliamentary elections since the U.S. military withdrawal in 2011 were announced.

The challenge now for al-Maliki is to build a ruling coalition as violence rages and instability grows.

Rival Shiite blocs were the next two top vote-getters, with Sunni blocs trailing as the country grows increasingly polarized along sectarian and ethnic lines.

The showing increased the likelihood that Iraq’s next government could rely on an even narrower Shiite base than the current one, which Sunnis see as biased against their sect and Kurds deem as hostile to their efforts to carve out greater autonomy in the north.

Al-Maliki’s State of Law bloc was never expected to secure a majority of 165 seats in the 328-member parliament. He will still need to approach other parties to piece together a broader majority coalition to get the first crack at forming a government.

Still, the 92 seats his bloc walked away with increase the 63-year-old premier’s chances of holding onto the post he first ascended to in 2006 from relative obscurity.

The parliamentary election was the third since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that removed dictator Saddam Hussein’s Sunni-led regime and brought the long-oppressed Shiite majority to power. It came at a perilous moment for Iraq, with the country sinking back into a brutal cycle of bloodshed that claimed more than 8,800 lives last year alone.

The resurgence of sectarian violence, which nearly tore Iraq apart in 2006 and 2007, is being fuelled both by deep-seated divisions within Iraq and the three-year-old civil war in neighbouring Syria .

Iraq’s Sunni minority feels increasingly marginalized by al-Maliki’s government since he cracked down on a protest movement demanding reforms last year.

Islamic militants, meanwhile, have seized control of the city of Fallujah and other pockets of the Sunni-dominated Anbar province west of Baghdad, and carry out frequent and carefully orchestrated mass-casualty attacks in the capital.

More than 9,000 candidates from across Iraq battled for seats in the April 30 election. Electoral officials reported that 62 per cent of the 22 million eligible voters cast ballots — the same turnout as in the last parliamentary elections in 2010.
