
The show, also produced by Kher, is titled 'The Anupam Kher Show - Kuchch Bhi Ho Sakta Hai'.

After bringing fiction shows inspired by real life issues such as female foeticide (Na Aana Is Des Meri laado), child marriage (Balika Vadhu) and honour killing (Rishton Se Badi Pratha), Colors is set to inspire the audiences with stories of real people, their struggle and success.

The channel, in association with Anupam Kher, will soon launch a show that will highlight the "most inspirational" stories of Bollywood celebrities who will speak about the challenges and testing times they have experienced before winnings accolades and achieving success.

The show, hosted and produced by Kher (The Anupam Kher Productions), is titled 'The Anupam Kher Show-Kuchch Bhi Ho Sakta Hai'. It marks Kher's foray into television production and is slated to commence shoot by end of May.

Raj Nayak, CEO, Colors, says, "While people know Anupam Kher the star, there's much more to him as a human being. His own story is extremely inspirational and now he's going to help others like him talk to our viewers about their experiences. We are sure that with a host like Anupam on board, this show will make them laugh, cry and inspire at the same time."

Commenting on the show's concept, Kher adds, "Television is a medium that has been close to my heart and developing and hosting this show, on Colors, is like a homecoming of sorts. Moreover, the show is my first foray into television production and it's my belief that sharing stories of struggles, self-motivation and success of achievers from different walks of life will be the perfect onset of my journey into this unexplored territory."

Kher has earlier worked with Colors for Anil Kapoor's thriller series '24', as Wasim Khan. He has also done a kids' show for SAB TV called 'Say Na Something To Anupam Uncle'.

The other popular celebrity chat shows on Indian television include Jeena Isi Ka Naam Hai (hosted by Farooq Sheikh) and Koffee with Karan (hosted by Karan Johar).
