
Until recently, Oregon Republican Senate hopeful Monica Wehby was known mostly as a rare chance for the GOP hopeful to be competitive in a blue state, and a candidate with a campaign ad quickly  dubbed  one of the best of the year. But on the eve of the state’s primary Tuesday, Wehby’s Republican and Democratic opponents are seizing on another way to define her – as an unstable stalker.

This follows revelations that in April 2013, Wehby’s ex-boyfriend, Andrew Miller, called the police to complain that she was “stalking” him and had repeatedly entered his home uninvited. Politico  reported  on the incident Friday, on the morning of the primary debate. On the same day, The Oregonian  published  audio of the call.

Though Miller said at the time he would seek a protective order against Wehby, he didn’t, and now says he regrets the call. “There was a week there or so when we were breaking up that people can be emotional. And me included,” Miller told Politico.

There’s another bend in this convoluted tale: Earlier this month, the Democratic Party of Oregon  filed  a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, alleging Wehby’s campaign was improperly coordinating with a super PAC to which Miller is a major donor. The group has run ads attacking Wehby’s primary opponent, Jason Conger. Miller has also donated to Wehby’s Senate campaign.

At the Republican debate Friday, Conger said the incident  raised  questions about Wehby’s judgment. The right-leaning Daily Caller referred to Wehby’s “weird past” and  questioned  whether the Republican establishment was properly vetting candidates.

Jim Moore, professor of political science at Pacific University, talks with Rachel Maddow about the strange cast of characters that make up the Oregon Republican Party and its wildly wealthy benefactors, including several who aren’t even in Oregon.

Before the report about Wehby’s ex-husband, National Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee spokesman Brad Dayspring was treating the disclosure about Wehby’s ex-boyfriend as an opportunity to deflect Democratic claims of a “war on women.” Dayspring  blamed  Democrats, whom he claimed had “waged a war to personally destroy Republican Senate candidates, particularly strong Republican women.” He added that Democrats had “resorted to vicious  personal attacks  that would almost certainly classify  as sexist  by their own definition.” He did not say whether he himself would classify it as sexist.

But if Wehby wins the primary, the revelations could hurt her in the general election A poll recently  released  by a NewRepublican.org, a group advocating for Wehby, showed Wehby with a wide lead in the primary overall, including with the 37 percent of voters who had already mailed their ballots.

The ad also neatly elides the fact that Wehby says (at times nebulously) that while she is personally opposed to abortion she does not want the federal government involved in a woman’s decision – making her the subject of a barrage of attack ads from social conservatives in the primary.
