
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Springfield police arrested Patrick Russell Bell on Friday while investigating the assault of a woman with a knife. According to a recently published ranking, Springfield is in “dangerous” company with other mid-sized cities.

Springfield police are giving little weight to a recent ranking by a real estate blog that calls Springfield one of the "most dangerous mid-sized cities in America."

In the company of Little Rock, Arkansas, and Flint, Michigan, Springfield was put at No. 5.

The ranking story by the blog Movoto Real Estate was published Thursday and is being shared and discussed on social media. Its author defended the ranking in a News-Leader interview.

Police spokeswoman Lisa Cox said she has received several calls about the rankings.

"We don't take it very seriously," Cox said.

Cox said officials in the department have reviewed the methodology used in the report, which professes to base the ranking on crime reports created in Springfield and passed to the FBI. The police officials concluded the authors of the blog ignored several factors that would arbitrarily inflate the city's position on the "most dangerous" list.

Most notably, Cox said the data used in Movoto's analysis was not meant to be used to compare cities because of the unique variables that influence crime rates in each city.

The report, inflated or not, comes at a time when public safety funding is dominating city budget talks.

The FBI, which compiles data used in the Uniform Crime Report the blog cites in its report, discourages drawing too many conclusions from the data.

"There are so many variables when you are looking at crime statistics," said FBI spokeswoman Bridget Patton.

"We do see different entities trying to do rankings," Patton said.

What people should remember, Patton said, is that law enforcement agencies submit their crime numbers voluntarily. So, for any given year, some agencies could be left out of the report entirely.

Some agencies are more proactive about submitting crime stats, Patton said.

The citizenry of some cities, she said, might be more likely to report crime.

"There are so many different variables," Patton said. "Drawing any conclusion would be difficult."

Randy Nelson, the author of the analysis for Movoto, acknowledged that the FBI cautions against using UCR data for stats.

Nelson said he believed the FBI doesn't want the data to be used to judge the efficacy of a particular police agency.

"They have to be very diplomatic," he said.

For Movoto's ranking, the city's 2012 crime rates are compared to other cities.

In an attempt to reach a "level playing field," the website calculated the crime rate using each city's population.

Police Chief Paul Williams has often pointed out that this city's daytime population swells significantly because of the city's regional draw in work, school and leisure activity. Using the U.S. census population of 160,962 — which this study used — can be misleading, Williams has said.

Nelson said every city was held to the same standard — population for the 2010 census.

He added: "Regardless, the crimes are still being committed within the city limits."

Using the comparison, the blog said the odds of being a crime victim in Springfield are 1 in 21.

But Cox said that still doesn't tell the whole story.

The vast majority of Springfield crime involves property — not people directly. Police have identified car thefts and break-ins as a problem. The blog gave property crimes and violent crimes the same weight.

Officers have launched multiple public awareness campaigns to remind citizens to lock their vehicles. One recent initiative utilizes fliers that look like parking tickets.

Although the city struggles with property crime rates, Cox said, the crimes do not necessarily threaten a person's physical safety.

Movoto's analysis does show the impact that property crime has on the overall ranking. The bloggers said Springfield ranked No. 1 for property crime. For the murder rate, Springfield came in at No. 32.

For violent crime, Springfield placed 15th.

For the "most dangerous" ranking, Movoto said murder, violent crime and property crime each accounted for 30 percent of the city's overall score, while total crimes made up 10 percent.

Nelson acknowledged that there might be some variables that "no one can really qualify," but he defended the value of the blog's ranking.

"If anything, we are comparing places without bias. It is purely based on what's happening," he said.

Two Springfield City Council members and the police officers' union are calling for increases in staffing, citing a significant spike in city crime.

Recent crime data shows the number of reported serious crimes rose 3 percent overall in 2013, with a steep increase in violent crime driving the trend.

Although the number of homicides was down, robberies and aggravated assaults both increased more than 10 percent. Reported rapes doubled, although police attributed much of that increase to a change in classification that includes a wider variety of sexual assaults.
