
British voters have been urged not to vote for far-right anti-immigration parties - by the grandson of a leading Nazi war criminal.

Rainer Hoss, whose grandfather Rudolf Hoss was the infamous commandant of Auschwitz, warned that he fears the rise of neo-Nazi extremists all across Europe.

His warning comes just days after Nigel Farage was criticised for a 'racial slur' on Romanian immigrants and was accused of repeatedly using the n-word. One of the party's candidates was also photographed naked showing off a series of Third Reich-themed tattoos.

Mr Farage was attacked for claiming that he would be 'uncomfortable' if a group of Romanians moved next door to him. When asked why there was a difference between Romanians and Germans he said: 'You know the difference.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband, whose Jewish father Ralf fled the Nazis for Britain in 1940, this morning said the remarks were 'completely out of order'.

And David Cameron this morning said the Ukip leader had said some 'really pretty unpleasant things'.

The Prime Minister added: 'He has even himself had to admit he got it wrong.

'I will leave others to judge but what I have heard from some of the candidates, some of the donors to the party is a succession of pretty appalling things.

'I would just say to people look, what we need in Britain is not the politics of anger, we need the politics of the answer - how do we get migration better under control, how do we reform our welfare, how do we get the relationship right with Europe.

'I am offering solutions, I am offering a plan, a plan that is working with our economy, and people should veer away from some of these statements.'

The remarks came after Ukip's Kevin O’Doherty, who is standing for a seat in Hastings, East Sussex, was photographed with a series of offensive images tattooed on his left arm.

They included a German eagle, used by Hitler during the Second World War, and two German Stuka planes diving towards a Jewish Star of David, coloured in yellow — the same colour as the badge Jews were forced to wear during the Holocaust.

Mr O'Doherty contacted MailOnline, admitting that the the Stuka 'was an instrument of death', but insisting that he was not a Nazi.

Mr Farage has also been accused of repeatedly using the n-word when referring to black voters.

Ukip founder Professor Alan Sked said the storm of controversy provoked by Mr Farage’s remarks about Romanians ‘backs up what I have always said’ about the Ukip leader’s private views on race.

Mr Farage last night insisted the 'vast majority' of Romanians in the UK would make 'good neighbours' as he sought to limit the damage caused by his controversial suggestion he would be concerned if a group of people from the eastern European country moved in next door.

The party took out a full-page advertisement in a national newspaper to insist Ukip was not racist but repeated its warning about the risk posed by organised criminal gangs from Romania.

Mr Farage said his comments about people being right to be concerned if a group of Romanian men moved in next door had caused a 'predictable storm of protest and accusations of racism'.

The Ukip leader initially stood by his remarks, which came during a bruising interview with LBC, but last night he said: 'Do you know what, in life sometimes people get things wrong.'

He told BBC News: 'I regret the fact that I was completely tired out and I didn't use the form of words in response that I would have liked to have used.

'I should have just hit back immediately and said: 'Look, understand there is a real problem here - you can't deny it - too much criminality from these gangs has come to London".'

But Nazi grandson Mr Hoss claimed voters are in danger of letting history repeat itself and urges people to get out and vote for mainstream parties.

More than a million people were butchered  at Auschwitz under Rudolf Hoss. His grandson Rainer only became aware  of his family's role in the war as a 12 twelve-year old boy.

In the viral campaign video, Mr Höss says: 'I know more than most people about the desire to forget.

'There have been times when I have wanted to deny my past - pretend I was someone else.

'But we must never forget our past, no matter how much it hurts. Because, when we forget history will repeat itself.

'I fear that this is happening right now. All over Europe, far-right political parties are gaining ground and if we do nothing we have learned nothing.

'My name is Rainer Höss, my grandfather was Rudolf Höss, the Nazi commandant of the Auschwitz extermination camp.

'My history taught me democracy, equality and human rights never can be taken for granted. Never forget to vote.'

The video, which has been backed by TV star Stephen Fry, was the brainchild of the Swedish Social Democratic Youth League, which has launched a European campaign to get people to vote in this Thursday's European elections.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
