
The World Economic Forum is expected to bring 600 delegates to the Philippines starting Wednesday to talk about greater economic integration in one of the fastest growing regions in the world where poverty remains widespread.

With the theme “Leveraging Growth for Equitable Progress,” the three-day 23rd World Economic Forum on East Asia will gather economic managers, conglomerates, heads of state and powerful political figures for a three-day conference in Manila.

It is the first time the forum will be held in the Philippines which the WEF cited as one of the fastest-growing economies in the world despite widespread poverty.

Sushant Palahurthi Rao, WEF senior director and head for Southeast Asia, said the Philippines did very well in the previous years, when it improved its rankings in several world indexes.

“[The] Philippines was the most improved, in terms of competitiveness ranking. It was among the top ten most improved countries, placing fifth,” Rao said.

Rao stressed the Philippines was the only developing country to consistently improve and address the gender gap issue in the region.

The American think tank IHS also expected the Philippine economy to more than double in the next decade as earnings from overseas workers and business outsourcing surge.

Once the region’s perennial economic laggard, the Southeast Asian country is poised to stage a major comeback to be one of the top three economies in the region by 2030, forecast Rajiv Biswas, Asia-Pacific chief economist for IHS.

“(The) Philippines economy has undergone a remarkable transition from a pussycat into a tiger economy over the last decade,” he said in a statement issued ahead of the holding of the World Economic Forum on East Asia meeting in Manila this week.

“The Philippine economy has the capacity for robust long-term economic growth of around 4.5 percent to 5.0 percent per year over the 2016 to 2030 time horizon,” the report said.

The economy will grow from its present level of about $280 billion to $680 billion by 2024, “with a projected GDP of $1.2 trillion by 2030,” he added.

He cited the strong growth of remittances from the estimated 10 million Filipinos working overseas as well as the local business process outsourcing industry, which has surged in the past decade.

But Biswas also warned that in order to sustain economic growth, the Philippines will have to improve conditions to attract more investment to the key tourism and manufacturing sectors.

He also cited government figures showing that despite the rapid growth, one in four Filipinos still lives in poverty while unemployment and underemployment remain serious problems.

Vice President Jejomar C. Binay agreed with Biswas and said economic expansion is meaningless if it does not eliminate poverty.

“Allow me therefore to add nuance and character to these ideas as we discuss what ought to be, in the end, the real challenge of economic growth— that expansion is meaningless without inclusion, when it does not alleviate poverty, when economic gains are not shared with the marginalized sectors of society,” Binay said during the Financial Times-First Metro Philippines Investment Summit.

The summit is a gathering of senior policy-makers, financiers, economists and business leaders to discuss strategies for the impending ASEAN integration.

The Vice President noted the economic gains under the Aquino administration, calling it a “springtime” for the Philippine economy.

“Inclusion, after all, is not just statistics. It must accrue to all citizens, rich and poor, one member of society at a time. Inclusion must have a name, a face and an address,” he said.

This year’s WEF expects three state leaders, 16 finance ministers and over 600 delegates representing more than 30 nationalities.

Heads of states gracing the event are President Beningo Aquino III, Myanmar Vice President Sai Mauk Kham, Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung and Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.

Also attending the event are Philippine Cabinet members, including Budget Secretary Florencio Abad, Bureau of Internal Revenue Commissioner Kim Henares and National Treasurer Rosalia de Leon.

The delegates during the three-day event will attend a soirée hosted by Ayala Corp. at the Ayala Triangle. The delegates can also have a tour of cities in Metro Manila.

Car makers Volkswagen, BMW and Hyundai will provide the Philippine government with vehicles to transport delegates as the forum hosts several events and soirees.

Event organizers will provide 11 Hyundai Grand Santa Fe, 52 Grand Starex, 30 buses and over 20 coasters to delegates for their transportation. Twenty five BMW and 40 Volkswagen cars will also be used by the VIPs.

The organization is in partnership with local companies like Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co., SM Investments, International Container Terminal Services Inc. and Ayala Corp.

Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said the government would spend P71 million for the whole event.

Purisima guaranteed the convenience of the delegates upon arrival amid the ongoing repair of Ninoy Aquino International Airport terminal 1 and 3 and the scorching heat of the sun.

“We’re in the midst of renovating terminals 1 and 3 and the good thing about our set-up, we have terminals that distributes the loads, so we’ve been in talks with the Department of Transportation to make sure everything goes smoothly,” he said.

Leaders during the forum will tackle how countries in the region can achieve equitable progress, advance their models to sustain growth and benefit from the gains in Asean’s economic integration next year.
