
LET the political games begin.

University of the Sunshine Coast politics lecturer Bronwyn Stevens believes Prime Minister Tony Abbott will be forced to set aside his hard-nosed determination to gain the minor-party support needed to carry the budget - and that means making changes to the controversial document.

The view follows reports of widespread public anger over the budget and a new Newspoll that suggests two-party-preferred support for the government has dropped to 45%, behind Labor's resurgent 55%.

If those figures were replicated at an election today, it would mean a landslide loss to the Coalition.

"He'll have to face the reality of the political situation they're in," Ms Stevens said of Mr Abbott's predicament.

"I do think he's going to have to negotiate to some degree, but I think he may be forced to go further than he wants to get things through this parliament - and then put some things off to the new Senate."

Ms Stevens suggested the government would begin negotiations before the budget was voted on by the Senate.

Negotiations would also involve the Palmer United Party, headed by Member for Fairfax Clive Palmer, which will hold three vital seats in the new Senate from July 1.

But with opposition to key budget aspects like pensions, the health co-payment, the increased pension age and tertiary education costs, satisfying all parties with all matters will be a challenge.

It is also possible some disliked budget initiatives would need to be plucked out, to become separate bills, in order to ensure the budget is passed.

"I can't really predict how they're going to do it," Ms Stevens said.

"With the new Senate, it's going to be a bit like herding cats - difficult to get them all going in the same direction.

"I think they've caused themselves a great deal of hardship in their relationship and level of trust with the Australian voter, but also with the states as well.

"It's amazing how they could manage to alienate so many people so quickly."

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Sunshine Coast Newspaper Company Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
