
Share This Story!

A comprehensive analysis of state death rulings found multiple irregularities.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A comprehensive analysis of state death rulings found multiple irregularities.

CHARLOTTE  – Across North Carolina, medical examiners fail to follow crucial investigative steps, raising questions about the accuracy of thousands of death rulings, a Charlotte Observer investigation found.

The living face the consequences.

Widows can be cheated out of insurance money. Families may never learn why their loved ones died. Killers can go free.

Because of a medical examiner’s mistake, Cherokee County resident Cathy Wilson had her husband’s body dug up to show that he was killed by a car accident rather than a heart attack. Shannon Santimore had to fight for three days in court to prove that her husband did not commit suicide in Buncombe County.

After a medical examiner concluded David Worley died in a Harnett County car wreck last July, a funeral home discovered what the examiner missed: four stab wounds in his back. His widow is now charged with killing him.

• Medical examiners fail to examine bodies in one of every nine cases, despite state rules that require them to view every corpse.

• Nine times out of 10, medical examiners don’t visit death scenes, a step that national experts say is key to investigations.

• Elderly deaths get little scrutiny. Some N.C. counties go years without performing autopsies on older victims.

• Families often wait months for rulings, which delays insurance payments and increases emotional stress.

Medical examiners are called in to investigate when the stakes are highest: suspicious, violent, accidental and unattended deaths. Those account for about 10,000 of the roughly 75,000 deaths in North Carolina each year. But the state doesn’t require examiners to get training and rarely disciplines them when they break the rules.

Dr. Deborah Radisch, the state’s chief medical examiner, acknowledged shortcomings in death investigations, and blamed them on a lack of money. “We’re trying to do the best we can with what we have,” she said.

Last year, the state’s failings — and sloppy paperwork — proved deadly.

After an elderly couple died the same night in a Boone hotel room, the local medical examiner, Dr. Brent Hall, did not go to the scene. Hall also didn’t alert the state toxicology lab in Raleigh about the mysterious circumstances — or ask that tests be rushed. It took the state nearly six weeks to determine that carbon monoxide killed the couple. Even then, no one warned the public. The next weekend, the poisonous gas leaked into the hotel room again and killed 11-year-old Jeffrey Williams.

North Carolina’s medical examiner system operates much the way it did 40 years ago, when the population was about half as large. The average state medical examiner system spends $1.76 per capita on its death investigation system, according to a 2007 survey by the National Association of Medical Examiners (NAME). Last year, North Carolina spent less than half that — about 84 cents per capita.

Gov. Pat McCrory is asking lawmakers for an additional $1 million to fix the problems.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
