
A Lebanon County judge has refused to issue a judgment in a civil dispute between a builder and a developer and is sending the case to a trial.

Gardel Inc., an entity representing Garman Builders since 2007, filed a civil lawsuit against Shadow Creek, LLC, over impact fees.

In April 2012, North Cornwall Township's solicitor informed Gardel that multiple impact fees had not been paid and submitted an invoice to Gardel for $21,000.

According to Judge Bradford Charles' May 1 order, neither Gardel nor Shadow Creek paid impact fees to the township for a period of time. On Aug. 13, 2012, Gardel filed two civil complaints in Lancaster County against Shadow Creek, with each seeking payment of $12,500. Lancaster County Court consolidated the complaints and transferred them to Lebanon County on Nov. 8, 2012.

On Oct. 25, 2013, Gardel filed a motion for summary judgment, including an acknowledgment by Shadow Creek that it had paid some impact fees after 2003 but not the $21,000 sought by North Cornwall Township. Shadow Creek refused to acknowledge that it agreed with North Cornwall to pay the impact fee for all of the lots in the development plan.

Charles wrote that a 2003 agreement between Shadow Creek and Garman did not include the words "impact fees" or "recreation fees," even though North Cornwall Township assesses such fees.

"We found no letters, correspondence, memorandums of understanding or other documents pertaining to the impact fees," Charles wrote. "No deposition transcripts were included."

Charles concluded that "for the most part, Gardel simply assumed that Shadow Creek was responsible for paying impact fees based upon its willingness to do so between 2003 and 2006." Charles noted that clear title, insured by a title insurance company, was conveyed by Shadow Creek to Gardel.

"If in fact the failure to pay impact fees could somehow be considered as creating a lien or encumbrance, why would a title insurance carrier issue a policy to insure title on all of the conveyed lots?" Charles asked.

"In our opinion, a factual issue exists with respect to whether Shadow Creek could be deemed legally responsible to pay the impact fees that form the basis of this litigation," Charles wrote, in declining to award summary judgment.

The judge scheduled a status conference for June 12 to establish deadlines for the case.
