
Brad Vetter, owner of Chop Shop Salads LLC, is shown inside his company's St. Matthews location.

Chop Shop Salads LLC is opening a third location. It will be located near the intersection of Hurstbourne Parkway and Shelbyville Road.

Owner Brad Vetter said he expects the 1,500-square-foot store to open in early June at 203 N. Hurstbourne Parkway. It will be able to seat about 35 people.

“It’s really exciting for me. I really think this third store is doing to raise the awareness of our business in Louisville," he said.

Chop Shop Salads is a fast-casual restaurant that sells salads and wraps. There currently is a location downtown at 436 W. Market St. and another in St. Matthews at 126 Breckinridge Lane.

Workers from the Hurstbourne area have been traveling down the road to the St. Matthews store for lunch, Vetter said.

Plus, the surrounding area has a high concentration of white-collar workers, Vetter said. He finds that those are the people who tend to eat out for lunch.

Renovations are under way on the new store and will cost about $60,000 to $70,000m Vetter said. The improvements include taking out walls, adding new sinks and equipment, and building the prep bar and service line.

The additional location is all part of a grander plan, which started when Vetter bought out his investment partner, George Barrett , last August to become the sole owner of Chop Shop Salads.

“It was kind of important for me to move forward by myself," Vetter said.

Eventually, Vetter said, he would like to own two or three more Chop Shop Salads locations in Louisville and to franchise the business in other cities.

Caitlin Bowling covers these beats: Restaurants, retail, human resources, and women & minority affairs.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
