
. . . . . . .

Photo Credits: Photo provided by Paul  Kilzer.

Photo Caption: Oil wells on Paul Kilzer's property allegedly leak, spilling oil onto his land.

A bitter lawsuit over oil-and-gas wells on the land of an Amesville couple is heading for the Fourth District Court of Appeals, with defendants Paul and Kerensa Kilzer filing an appeal of a contempt judgment.

The original lawsuit was filed in July 2011 against the Kilzers by Jamie Metcalf, a Glouster woman who owns nine oil-and-gas wells at the center of the suit.

They also claimed that they have owned the well equipment since they won it in a default judgment against another operator in Athens County Common Pleas Court in 2000.

Though they promptly turned around and leased the equipment to Metcalf's husband, they claim, it has belonged to them since their 2000 court victory. Therefore, they say, with the termination of their former lease, they now own the wells and everything that comes out of them.

Metcalf disputes this claim of equipment ownership and the case revolves around who should get the money from sales of the wells' output, and whom to blame for an oil spill on the site.

In an entry filed April 11, Judge Michael Ward found Kerensa Kilzer in contempt for giving false testimony during her deposition.

In his ruling, Ward found that Kerensa Kilzer gave false testimony when she claimed she had signed an affidavit when it was later revealed her husband had signed her name for her. Kerensa has claimed that she gave her husband permission to do so, but the court found that Paul did not have legal authorization to do so under power-of-attorney or guardianship.

The appeal cites language from the contempt judgment entry stating that the court "has decided that the validity of the oil and gas lease is not an issue," and later that "the court considers the lease to be valid."

The Kilzers have appealed that judgment, claiming that the court has violated their rights to procedural due process under the Ohio Constitution and the 5th and 14th amendments of the U.S. Constitution.

The Kilzers claim that these statements implicitly deny their motion for summary judgment without adequate consideration of the arguments and applicable case law supporting the defendants.
