
Josephine Mulry repeatedly punched fellow club goer Callum Budde, 21,

A woman who bit off a man’s ear in an unprovoked nightclub attack because she thought he was trying to start a fight with her boyfriend has escaped a prison term.

Josephine Mulry repeatedly punched 21-year-old Callum Budden and then bit off his ear lobe.

The bloody piece of flesh was then apparently eaten by another club goer, Dorchester Crown Court heard.

Following the brutal assault Mulry, 27, was thrown out of the nightclub while Mr Budden was taken to hospital where he needed plastic surgery to reconstruct his damaged ear.

Mulry has been handed a nine-month suspended prison sentence and told to pay £500 in compensation to the victim after pleading guilty to unlawful wounding.

Mr Budden, who works in a nearby nightclub, said he had never seen Mulry before in his life, and was so baffled by the attack that he had to be told by an onlooker that part of his ear was missing.

The assault took place in Dusk nightclub in Weymouth, Dorset, on September 29 last year.

Mr Budden, from Weymouth, said: 'I had never seen her before in my life.

'There was probably only around a 15-second window before the security staff got rid of her. I didn’t really get time to think it was so brief.

'I didn’t realise what had happened. It took me a fair few minutes before someone said: “You’re missing a bit of your ear."'

It is not clear what happened to the part of the ear, however the court was told it is believed another clubber picked it up and put it in their mouth.

In a police interview Mulry said she was 'horrified and disgusted' by her actions.

Robert Harding, mitigating, said Mulry was 'genuinely remorseful for her actions, which were genuinely out of character.'

He added: 'She feels incredibly sorry for what has happened to this victim.'

As well as a nine-month suspended prison term, Mulry, also from Weymouth, was also given a 12-month community order.

Judge Roger Jarvis said: 'It is plain in my judgement that the reason for the commission of this offence was your over-indulgence in alcohol.'

Follwing the sentencing, Mr Budden said it was 'a bit too lenient'.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
