
The Change and Reform lawmakers will vote for the head of the bloc, Free Patriotic Movement chief Michel Aoun, in the fifth round of the presidential elections despite an expected final decision by al-Mustaqbal movement not to back his candidacy.

An Nahar newspaper said Monday that the MPs, who have boycotted the previous rounds of the polls, will head to parliament on Thursday and vote for Aoun to avoid the criticism of paralyzing the elections and causing a vacuum at Baabda Palace.

Maronite Patriarch Beshara al-Rahi has on several occasions called on lawmakers to exercise their right to vote for a head of state by May 25, when President Michel Suleiman's six-year term expires.

The vote for Aoun would be seen as a sign of protest to the candidacy of March 14 alliance's sole nominee Lebanese Forces chief Samir Geagea.

The MPs of the March 8 alliance, including the Change and Reform bloc, had been so far claiming that their boycott of the elections was the result of lack of an agreement on a consensual president.

Aoun had been repeatedly claiming that he would not announce his candidacy against his rival Geagea if there was no consensus on him.

But al-Mustaqbal movement is on the verge of making its stance official by not approving such a candidacy, highly-informed sources told As Safir newspaper.

This stance would push towards withdrawing Geagea's candidacy to open discussions on another choice to fill the country's top Christian post, they said.

Al-Akhbar newspaper, however, quoted Aoun's visitors as saying that he is in continuous contact with al-Mustaqbal movement leader ex-PM Saad Hariri.

Hariri has informed Aoun that he is “exerting efforts to convince Saudi Arabia to elect him as president,” they said.

G.K.

H.K.

Better late then never... they are doing the right things, selecting a candidate, showing up & casting a ballot.

An Nahar newspaper said Monday that the MPs, who have boycotted the previous rounds of the polls, will head to parliament on Thursday and vote for Aoun to avoid the criticism of paralyzing the elections and causing a vacuum at Baabda Palace.

So what has changed, they could have done this from the beginning, almost unbelievable that they play these games then end up right where they started.

The vote for Aoun would be seen as a sign of protest to the candidacy of March 14 alliance's sole nominee Lebanese Forces chief Samir Geagea. Even when they vote their intention isn't to elect a president but out of spite. This BS is childish at best. why not nominsate someone they are serious about then and vote for him instead of using aoun as a side show..+ 1 FPM.

@forces, let me acquaint you with @the_roar. He is 5th generation lebanese whose great grandparents discovered australia. He does not read, speak, or understand Arabic. He is here 24/7 on a lebanese political site and knows the names of all MPs, the names of every street and corner in Lebanon, listens to Sami Gemayel deliver his speeches in "English". The bottom line he is a hypocrite ashamed of who he is.

Ok roar I'll entertain your logic for a second. So M14 place their candidate forward but aren't serious after 4 parliamentary sessions. He has the full backing of his whole alliance even though there are many alternatives they still stand by Geagea. M8 can at anytime present a credible alternative and seek Walid's vote and they would have a president. Yet because Geagea is a candidate M8 find it justifiable to obstruct and cause vacuum. In you view is this a credible path any well paid politican entrusted with his nation should act. No doubt M8 candidate would not be to M14's liking but you haven't heard them say Geagea or nobody.  I'll let you decide if this is logical.

There would be no Lebanese around to read it.

Brother phoenix, I have to agree with you on this one bro. I think there comes the time when the people will have to test their will against that of the politicians. The politicians are doing everything to hit at the others' teeth all the while knowing that this will have serious consequences on the nation and the people. What do the politicians care, they're awash with cash and property assets, sinfully so. So if the void is created by next week, our economy already on the brink of total collapse will get even worse and worst to come too. But the people who nowadays have to struggle past a myriad of problems, who will look after them, the politicians? Think everyone. If on the 24th no solution is found, then let us the people go to Baabda by the thousands to ask the president to stay, by sheer numbers, we can. What is the nation without a people? Let us make it heard, our WILL against the mafia's.

You Alfinik, the character created by Ibinbatrakrahi, every time I write, I know one of you puppets will barge in. It's either you, or then later Wolf Rear, or Profile, wlak anyone of you. ma3leysh ya Bani Maarouf or Ibin, people like me are focusing on real issues, and you jesters are focusing on those you hate. Anyway, all the same, it won't change a thing, try as you may, thumb as much as you wish, this year, next year, the year after, people like me will stay Inshallah. And also, we all know your tricks, cheap and totally lacking in dignity, so we shall keep it cheerful ma heyk? Yalla, Pif Paf 3aleykoun.

well done to the Naharnet Mods.

Roar brother, post whatever you want, it's your right to speak up your mind, even if people like me disagree with your views several times, but every single person is entitled to his views. But if you allow me bro, an advice to both you and FT, post, but don't be swayed by their idiocy, the trolls are here to derail people they disagree with, hoping to make you use derogative or swear words, avoid them at all cost, just keep cool, view them as no more than Mozy-Wozies, just do as I do, Piff Paff them and let's move along.

Thanks Brother, I know where you stand & that's why all M8 sided posters respect you & your posts regardless how I or others feel about them.

Many of my requests have been in fact to lay off you...this has gone to far, your posts have become distorted with these paid shill who follow you day in day out..its obvious the Mods have no problem with it.

I had 4 posts removed from this article, not one obtained insults or language....but someone stalking you me or FT  seems fine & dandy.

I await the day when I will read ONE meaningful post, ONE counter argument, ONE credible or mature info from you, flamethrower-- , but alas!

There's nothing to fear! Chupachups is here !

Plus, the people with competence have very few reasons to stay in this country. When you have received a good education, why would you stay in a country rotten by corruption, get low wage, no civil rights, no future, instability...at the end...you leave!

We have to start from scratch in this country: A NEW CONSTITUTION!

Aoun has no principles!

Hariri has informed Aoun that he is “exerting efforts to convince Saudi Arabia to elect him as president,” they said.

Aoun, still waiting for the telephone to ring, waiting for the call to become President. He's been doing this since 1990.  Old habits are hard to break.
