
Jianqing "Jessica" Klyzek, 32, is suing the city's police department after she was assaulted while handcuffed during a raid of her business. An officer threatened to put her 'in a UPS box and send you back to wherever the f--k you came from.' The department is investigating the incident.

A Chicago salon manager of Chinese descent was assaulted by a police officer while handcuffed, and told she would be placed in a box and sent back to "wherever the f--k you came from," according to a lawsuit filed against the city.

Surveillance video of the troubling incident last summer shows the officers enter the Copper Tan and Spa in Noble Square, with one man assaulting and verbally berating owner Jianqing (Jessica) Klyzek, a 32-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen who emigrated from China.

"You're not f--king American! I'll put you in a UPS box and send you back to wherever the f--k you came from!" the officer shouted to her.

"I'm a citizen, OK?" Klyzek replied.

"No, you're not! No, you're not a citizen! No, you're not! No, you're not! You're here on our borrowed time. So mind your f--king business before I shut this whole f--king place down. And I'll take this place and then whoever owns it will f--king kill you because they don't care about you, OK? I'll take this building. You'll be dead and your family will be dead," he replies.

Klyzek begins to protest and the officer responds, "Shut up already! Just shut up!"

You're not f--king American! I'll put you in a UPS box and send you back to wherever the f--k you came from!

An officer also hit the 5-foot-2, 110-pound woman in the back of her head while she was handcuffed and kneeling face first on the floor.

After the incident the officers then charged the woman for assaulting them on two occasions though both times the charges were dismissed.

Klyzek's attorney Torreya Hamilton filed a federal lawsuit against the department last week alleging the officers used excessive force, and were motivated by discrimination, which violated the state's hate crime laws.

Hamilton told the Daily News that Klyzek reacted emotionally when the men walked through the door and the 32-year-old who does not speak a lot of English was terrified and became hysterical. Though she did scream at the officers and at one point cursed at them it was after the officers had already acted in threatening manner and she was afraid of the authorities.

She still did not deserve the actions by the officers, Hamilton said.

The raid came after a worker allegedly offered to perform a sex act on an undercover cop.

A Chciago police officer allegedly roughed up salon owner Jianqing (Jessica), as seen in the top of the picture.

Officers raided Klyzek’s salon and surveillance video captured the incident.

"You would think their training would have them deal with that in a different way," she said.

The vice unit will routinely enter these massage parlors and ask the employees - who may not speak English - for sexual acts and arrest the workers, Hamilton said.

The attorney questioned if this was an effective use of the department's time.

"At a time when the streets of Chicago are crying out for officers they go and get massages. Then they get 15 officers to come in and bust them for a misdemeanor offense," she said. "This is what the police are doing with their resources. What a waste of time when people are being killed in record numbers."

Police spokesman Adam Collins told The News the Independent Police Review Authority is investigating the incident.

The words reveal a character that is not what a police officer should (demonstrate). That reveals people with prejudices with foreigners.

"The alleged comments, if true, are reprehensible and completely intolerable in our police department," he said. "We have codes of conduct that apply to officers, and if the allegations are proven accurate, appropriate action will be taken."

Hamilton said she was troubled by the language used by the officers that centered on her emigrating from another country.

"The words reveal a character that is not what a police officer should (demonstrate)," she said. "That reveals people with prejudices with foreigners."

Klyzek was arrested for aggravated battery of the officers and ordinance violations, but the charges were dismissed by a judge, Hamilton said. The officers claimed she scratched and punched them and charged her again, but the prosecutor declined to move ahead with charges, she said.

Only one salon worker was charged with prostitution in the raid and she pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor. Two other employees were cited for not displaying their masseuse licenses and the charges were dropped, she said.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
