
One of the consultants hired to help the city negotiate with the U.S. Department of Justice over reforms to the Albuquerque Police Department has asked the City Council to hold off on changes to the civilian oversight process.

A new framework for civilian oversight of the police department was among the items the council was to consider tonight. But Scott Greenwood, the city’s attorney for DOJ negotiations, said it would be better to wait for the Justice Department’s draft consent decree.

The Justice Department this spring determined APD had a “pattern or practice” of violating civil rights through its use of force. APD officers have shot and killed 25 people since 2010.

The consent decree will lay out what steps the city must take to address the problem. Greenwood said the draft should be available soon and that he’d expected to receive a copy today.

Greenwood, a civil rights attorney, will take the lead in negotiating with the Justice Department on Albuquerque’s behalf. He said Monday that reform agreements are usually for 5 years and that there would be an independent monitor to ensure reforms are carried out.

The council was scheduled to consider a proposal that would create a new police oversight board with independent funding and more authority than the current Police Oversight Commission. The POC has been criticized as ineffective and has not found fault with any of the officers involved in fatal shootings over the past four years.

Responding to council questions, Greenwood also stressed that he represents the city government as a whole, not just the Berry administration.

Note: Readers can use their Facebook identity for online comments or can use Hotmail, Yahoo or AOL accounts via the "Comment using" pulldown menu. You may send a news tip or an anonymous comment directly to the reporter, click here .

Dan McKay covers City Hall and county government.

He joined the Albuquerque Journal in 2000 after spending his first year out of college at the Lubbock Avalanche-Journal, where he covered car wrecks and county politics.

In Albuquerque, he's reported on both feral  cats and gross-receipts tax revenue bonds -- but not at the same time.

Dan is an Air Force brat. He graduated from the University of New Mexico.
