
I’ve heard that if you call something a “bailout,” people won’t like it! This is the approach taken in a piece on the private option  posted last week at Forbes . It is the  third   article  Forbes has published in the last month or so criticizing the Arkansas plan – which uses Medicaid funds to purchase private health insurance for low-income Arkansans –  all of them penned by Josh Archambault and Jonathan Ingram, who work for the Florida-based Foundation for Government Accountability (FGA), an advocacy group largely devoted to opposition to the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid expansion throughout the country, which has focused particular attention on opposition to the Arkansas private option.

"Following several months of negative press focused on cost overruns and other problems with the Private Option, Arkansas Medicaid Director Andy Allison abruptly resigned in early May," the Forbes authors write. The authors don't mention that the negative press amounts to these Forbes articles written by the authors themselves and blog items written by FGA staffers, plus a  Washington Times editorial  that used the same language and arguments that FGA has been using. FGA is an advocacy group dedicated to fighting tooth and nail against Obamacare and Medicaid expansion in any form, and has been heavily involved in battling the private option in Arkansas. And that’s fine! But it’s hardly surprising that those who have bitterly opposed the private option from the beginning continue to oppose it. It's a bit rich to hear the same arguments from the same people we've been hearing for a year pitched as some kind of "buyer's remorse."

The Forbes piece uses some oddly cherry-picked or misleading examples to describe the political lay of the land in Arkansas. Hilariously, the authors write that “[w]hen the bill originally passed the Arkansas House, only a minority of Republicans voted in favor of the plan” and reference a 2013 vote in one chamber on the enabling legislation, which needed only a simple majority. This vote, never in doubt, was a side note in the legislative drama and on the vote in question, a number of Republican supporters of the private option — including House Speaker Davy Carter, perhaps the most outspoken Republican supporter of the policy — did not vote, as often happens when the result is a foregone conclusion. To suggest this particular vote represented a lack of support from GOPs (like Carter!) is wildly misleading. The vote that was hotly contested and actually put the private option into effect was the appropriation. For some reason, the FGA authors do not inform readers that a majority of Republican lawmakers in both the House and the Senate voted for the private option appropriation in both 2013 and 2014. Whatever the reason for the omission, readers are left with the opposite impression of what actually happened in the Arkansas General Assembly. Several other examples purporting to show the political tides turning have similar problems — they reference a tweet about strategy from a Republican senator without mentioning that the senator in question continues to support the private option; there's a reference to a state Senate seat previously held by a Democrat, who resigned in disgrace, won by an anti-private option Republican in a special election — without mention that legislative seats long held by Democrats have been steadily flipping to Republican in Arkansas for years. We're told that a key Republican architect of the plan "now says he 'opposes'" the private option; in fact, Rep. John Burris continues to support and vocally argue for the policy. The reference is to Burris saying precisely the same thing he always has — that the private option is fundamentally different than traditional Medicaid expansion, which he opposes. FGA believes that distinction is ridiculous and that the lawmakers aren’t owning their votes, but Burris is not "trying to backtrack" and this is nothing new – it’s the exact same intra-party squabble that has played out since the private option first emerged.

The state will likely ask the feds for an adjustment to the 2014 cap because their actuaries predicted the average age to be two years lower than it's turned out to be.  If an adjustment is made  to reflect the actual age of enrollees, Arkansas will be under the cap. Again, this was never a block grant (as the FGA authors point out repeatedly elsewhere). The rules of the waiver are about the Medicaid counterfactual — if the demographics are different than what was predicted, that would impact the cost, whether it was traditional Medicaid or the private option. It's perfectly legitimate to complain about the inherently fudgey budget neutrality agreements in Medicaid waivers, but this is neither a "bailout" nor something new or unexpected, it's just the way the waiver works. The authors'  previous piece  in Forbes misled their readers with the claim "State Taxpayers To Pay Tens Of Millions."

You can read much more on these issues, as well on the projections from Optumas, the actuarial firm hired by the state,  in this post . Two things to keep in mind as you read about costs: 1) We don’t actually know whether these PMPM costs are accurate yet and won’t until we find out next year whether there was a medical loss ratio adjustment.  2) State officials will have  policy tools at their disposal  to impact costs going forward. The state’s budget neutrality tests and cost-effectiveness evaluations are conducted over the three-year life of the waiver, and the private option will likely look significantly different in 2016 than it does this year.

Jonesboro Mayor Harold Perrin has suspended Police Chief Mike Yates for 30 days without pay for Facebook comments about a Jonesboro Sun police reporter who's since quit her job because she said she didn't feel safe. The chief has been ordered to apologize, to undergo training, to stay away from social media and to review information release procedures that the Sun complained about.

An emotional Clarke Tucker, joined by his wife Toni, denounced Republican oppo research involving his four-year-old child at a a press conference this morning at his campaign headquarters in the Heights. The candidate for a District 35 House seat is running against Republican Stacy Hurst, a Little Rock City Director. "My opponent in this campaign for state representative has come after my four-year-old son and my family in a way that is completely unacceptable in a political campaign," Tucker said.

Harrison has scrubbed a visit from a delegation from Ghana on account of fear — unsupported — of the Ebola virus. The mayor said it is "hysteria" at work.

Rogers City Attorney Ben Lipscomb faces an investigation for claiming to be a law officer to get VIP treatment at a concert. Crime or no crime, it's not the first time he's demonstrated poor judgment. A new Arkansas lawyer recounts his experience with Lipscomb and his then-boss, the bumptious U.S. Rep. Steve Womack.
