
Simply supercalifragilisticexpialidocious!

...a great word to begin your day with. Try saying it. It’s sure to make you feel better. Mary Poppins, the nanny who comes flying in takes you on an unforgettably enchanting journey.

Armed with a bottomless carpet bag and an enchanted, talking umbrella, this English nanny is no stranger to us. Based on the children’s book by P.L. Travers, Mary Poppins is about the adventures of a magical nanny and how she helps reunite a family.

George Banks, a banker, and his wife, Winifred are too busy and distracted to spend time with their children, Jane and Michael. The kids want a nanny who has rosy cheeks and a cheery disposition, plays games, is kind, witty, sweet, fairly pretty, and sings songs. But their parents want a no-nonsense, military general like figure who would command and be firm with the kids.

And as the wind changes, the lovely Julie Andrews as Mary Poppins pops in at Number 17, Cherry Tree Lane, where the Banks family lives. After the kids and the new nanny get acquainted with one another, Mary Poppins’ version of “A Spoonful of Sugar” will have you snapping your fingers, tapping your feet, and maybe even tidying up your room too.

“Chim Chim Cheree” to the park where Bert is creating chalk drawings on the pavement. Mary Poppins, Bert and the kids jump into a drawing and this is where one of the best sequences in the movie comes to life. “Jolly Holiday” takes you through the animated countryside where the characters sing and dance with barn animals and penguins, ride the merry-go-round, take part in a horse race, and jump around to “Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious”!

Then, head over to Uncle Albert for “I Love to Laugh” to laugh till you float on the ceiling and have tea parties.

An all-time favourite is the song “Feed the Birds”. While the children are captivated by Mary Poppins, Mr. Banks is not so amused by the nanny’s influence on them.

After the kids go with their father to the bank where he works, and a minor fiasco later, they go off on a chimney-hopping adventure with Mary Poppins and Bert.

But, as Bert and his friends tap, hop and skip to “Step in Time”, Mr. Banks gets news that he may be fired from his job.

All he could say is “supercalifragilisticexpialidocious”!

The Banks family reunite at the park flying kites as they sing “Let’s Go Fly a Kite” as Mary Poppins is seen flying away, content that her work there is done, and promising to return soon.

Who wouldn’t love to have a nanny like Mary Poppins? I know I would!

The song “Let’s Go Fly a Kite” is the perfect ending to the movie. But if you tell a person to ‘go fly a kite’, you’re telling them to go away as you are annoyed with them!

In the final credits of the movie, the actor who plays Mr. Dawes Senior, the old chairman of the bank where Mr. Banks works, is credited as Navckid Keyd. It is an anagram of Dick Van Dyke, who also played the part of Bert.
