
The coming weeks are full of elections all across the world. From the EU to Egypt, voters will take to the polls to choose their newest leaders and representatives. Nowhere is this process more contentious than in Ukraine, however. After overthrowing the democratically elected President, Viktor Yanukovich, in February, the junta plans to hold so-called "elections" on May 25th. The problems are already piling up, with the southeastern regions refusing to participate, and presidential candidates withdrawing to protest the legitimacy of the vote. The Voice of Russia talked to Andrew Korybko, a Moscow-based political analyst and journalist, to discuss this topic with us.

When it comes to these elections, they are legal. I mean the legal elections were supposed to be held next year, however, because of the coup the current authorities decided to change the vote to 25th of May. At the same time there is the military activity in the east, candidates are withdrawing, the two main candidates are the representatives of the communist party – Tsarov, he is very popular in the east, right now is Democratic Peoples’ Governor of Donetsk. You also have mercenaries active in the east, we already had the violence that disrupted throughout the country. And with regards to if people are able to choose, yes, they should be able to choose but under the proper peaceful conditions, not under this mayhem.

The thing is once people are made aware of what is really going on in Ukraine, the legitimacy for these ruling authorities evaporates because when you look at what is happening, this democratic Maidan is immediately abolished. What you see is neo-Nazi fanaticism has swapped throughout the large part of the country.

Yes, it is a very possible scenario. Right now you basically have two main front runners if you will. The individual that is seen as a front runner is Peter Poroshenko, he is known as a chocolate king. The guys is a huge oligarch with billions. Then you have Yulia Timoshenko, and what is interesting is she used to be the darling of the western media, but lately they are not even talking about her anymore.

The answer is simple – geopolitics, and when it comes to western foreign policy, it is flipped on its head because what is good and should be legitimate, in this case the Syrian elections, are pinned as bad, but what is bad and illegitimate, the Ukrainian ones, are pinned as something good. So, everything is completely upside-down because the west typically only wants elections where their candidates are going to win or where they can influence the process. Communist party is not involved – that is already almost 20% of electorate right there, because Tsarov, who represented east is not participating, he withdrew because Donetsk and Lugansk are not participating. That is 6 million people that are not going to be voting, not counting others. They may choose not to vote because they feel intimidated and suppressed as it is. It is that the west can actually have a guiding hand in those elections but when we shift to Syria we see that people are people are very strongly rallying behind president Bashar Assad. They are very proud of the Syrian Arab army’s advances against the terrorists and the situation, although there is still violence in Syria, is of a different dynamic than what you see in Ukraine because in Syria there aren’t large regions that are boycotting their own presidential candidates that are withdrawing. Right now it is basically army mapping up these terrorist brigades that are just scattered throughout the country and some are in populated areas but a lot of there are in rural farms and outpost, and right along the border regions.

I think they will be pragmatically opposed. I think Russia will have some back channel dialogue because that gas bill needs to be paid by June 2nd. That is a huge issue because otherwise the tap will be cut off June 3rd . There needs to be some type of pragmatic dialogue but Russia will not recognize what is happening because it is completely illegal.

All rights reserved.
