
The Telluride Town Council on Tuesday decided against moving forward on the formation of a regional transportation authority with neighboring municipalities.

The council backed out of a similar proposal almost exactly a year ago.

The RTA formation has some momentum — the Town of Mountain Village and San Miguel County have both voted to move forward on the plan, which could lead to a ballot measure in November. (Norwood, however, voted against the proposal).

County Commissioner Joan May, who sits on the regional transit subcommittee that drafted the plan, said she was under the impression that all the local jurisdictions were in favor of giving the public a chance to weigh in on the issue.

But previous efforts have failed to gain traction, mainly due to the issue of funding. Last year, the idea came close when an effort was mounted to put an initiative on the ballot asking voters to approve the formation of an RTA and new taxes to support it, but fell through when Telluride opted out of it.

The subcommittee came forward with a new approach to creating an RTA this winter. This time, the idea was to set aside the notion of an initial tax ballot measure, and instead focus on an incremental strategy for building an RTA that would encompass Telluride, Mountain Village, Ophir, Sawpit and other parts of San Miguel County.

The concept was presented to the Telluride Town Council in February. At that meeting, the council approved the first step of the formation process, referring the draft agreement to neighboring jurisdictions, but several members had concerns about the proposal.

Those concerns were aired again on Tuesday, and were amplified this time. During a lengthy discussion on the matter, council members said they were uncomfortable with potential future taxes, the town’s representation on the RTA, the security of the town’s transit employees and the viability of a ballot measure.

Council member Thom Carnevale, who has been an outspoken critic of the plan, said he is opposed to tax increases he predicts would come with it. Telluride would lose its autonomy by becoming just two members of a nine-vote board, he added, and the town already has a well-functioning transit system in place.

“In other words, we’re going to be paying increased taxes for the status quo, and I don’t think that serves for the benefit of anyone,” he said. “The way this is written today, I couldn’t possibly support this.

Todd Brown, however, was in favor of moving forward on the RTA.

Kristen Permakoff also expressed concerns about Telluride’s representation on the board, while Brady said she was uncomfortable with the draft language.

And Bob Saunders said he would rather the town focus its efforts on ensuring that people can live in town rather put resources into making it easier for people to commute.

“The best way to reduce the carbon footprint is to make it easier to live in the place they work,” he said. Saunders added that he does think the public should have a say in the issue.

Despite the town’s vote, May said other regional bodies will move forward on the effort.

Mayor Stu Fraser, who was unable to make the meeting because his travel was disrupted by this week’s storm, said on Wednesday that too many unanswered questions remained.

But, he said, the town is not abandoning the transit issue.

The following are comments from the readers. In no way do they represent the view of telluridenews.com.

The TMV has made their own bed on re: non-resident 2nd homeowners and in my opinion, there's not a sufficiently compelling reason to impose upon individuals who reside outside of the TMV -- yet within the RTA boundaries -- a political construct which devalues and dilutes residency as a requirement of representation within our local governing bodies.

If my understanding of Section (8.04) is correct, I will oppose this RTA IGA at all steps and perhaps even seek legal recourse if I find myself in the position of being directly affected ... even if it's an increase of "just 10 bucks" on my vehicle registration. "

" The absolute last thing I want to be stuck behind on the way to Ophir is a wasteful carbon eating bus with no one on board paid for by yep - us taxpayers.

This is Telluride folks, not Durango, not Montrose. I'm very impressed by Mr. Carnevale's fiscal responsibility these days and this Tea Partier Independent just might vote for him next time around!

Please allow the free market to work. If local employers have to start paying realistic local wages because workers don't get subsidized by the government we will not only enforce economic independence, but will also sustain a local environmentally responsible economy.

I'm tired of smelling empty diesel-spewing Galloping Gooses polluting our Valley and urge Council to promote independent healthy proactive transportation for our workers. "

" I wholeheartedly agree with Bob Saunders -- we should make it affordable for our workers to live here with us, rather than importing them from distant and poorer areas, with the carbon trail that commuting leaves. We need to save our high priced real estate in town for the affluent second home owners though, because they will pay us more taxes - and we don't want to alienate our realtors who after all are the bedrock of our community. Therefore I propose that we build low cost housing on the Valley Floor.  A dense row of vegetation along the spur will preserve the pristine image as visitors drive into town.  We might even bring back some of the cows to restore the bucolic imagery.

Regional transportation?  Who needs it!  We can do this alone! "

Become a Registered User.  It only takes a moment!

Do not use usernames or passwords from your financial accounts!

Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required!

All rights reserved. View the Telluride Daily Planet's Privacy Policy . This material may not be broadcast, published, rewritten or redistributed without written permission.
