
The Australian coal industry is suffering a slump in profitability, but it still has a strong future.

Ten thousand coal mining jobs have gone in the past two years, and despite a global hunger for coal, used in steel and power generation, Australian miners are struggling.

Nonetheless, a new mine in Queensland is in the process of being approved which would be Australia's largest.

In the southern coalfields, a union meeting voted to reject a pay cut of up to $1,000 a week at Wollongong Coal's Russell Vale mine, and face at least 45 redundancies.

At Wongawilli mine, the workers were more pragmatic, voting to accept pay cuts to try to keep their jobs.

But there was worse news for coal miners in the Hunter Valley, where 500 jobs have been shed at Integra's two mines.

CFMEU President Peter Jordan says the company is not coming clean about whether it's just reopening the mines with changed pay conditions.

"The open cut is continuing to work as normal.

"But the underground employees were instructed to remain at home until another meeting on Friday.

"No employee has been given a formal notice to finish work. We're expecting that to be announced on Friday as to how and when those mines will close."

"We estimate about 10,000 jobs have been lost in the past two years," said Brendan Pearson of the Minerals Council of Australia.

Prices for thermal and coking coal (used in steel) have fallen over, this time by between 50 and 70 per cent.

Mr Pearson says not only has global coal supply increased, but mine costs have increased in Australia.

He also blames the carbon tax.

"All of our companies are feeling the pain of the carbon tax.

"It's about $800 million impost on the coal sector and not a single competitor abroad pays the carbon tax."

Coal outlook 'still strong'

Despite the current slump, the forecast is strong.

The official forecaster, the Bureau of Resource Energy Economics (BREE), says Australian exports will be worth $225 billion over five years for both coking coal and thermal coal.

Australia's biggest coal miners are Glencore, BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Peabody.

The BREE says Australia exported 540 million tonnes of coal in 2013, up from 501 million tonnes in 2012.

There have been some very large proposed mines recently approved in the Galilee Basin in Central Queensland.

The Queensland Government approved a $16 billion mine at Clermont in Central Queensland, which will be Australia's largest coal mine.

Local landholders are hotly opposed, because the rail line to take the coal to port will cut through cattle properties.

The Carmichael mine has yet to get Federal Government approval.

Mining analyst Andrew Harrington, of Indexys, says the low price may be unprofitable for the miners, but the coal is finding buyers, and there's been investment in infrastructure to get the coal to port..

"There's a lot of material leaving Australia," he said.

"The reason prices spiked a few years ago was because there was a lot of demand for coking coal during China's enormous steel construction boom, but there wasn't enough rail and port capacity.

"Now after billions of dollars investment, Australia has new rail, ports and new mines and the eastern states have 500 million tonnes of port capacity, and it's not all being utilised."

Mr Harrington says this is just a restructure.

"There's no one ever going to tell you you don't need steel in the world.

"One way is to get old steel and melt it down, and you use electricity to do that.

"But if you need to make new steel you need coking coal, so iron ore and coking coal make steel and there's no other viable way to do that."

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
