
“Walk out! We got your back! Walk out! We got your back!” shouted hundreds of fast-food workers and their supporters in a crammed McDonalds store.

All eyes were on Marta, as she paced around behind the McDonalds counter trying to figure out if she could join her fellow workers on the other side.

In unison, the workers continued to shout, “Walk out! We got your back!” News cameras flashed on Marta’s face, and organizers advised her over the counter about her rights.

Marta walked over to consult her managers, sparking hope in the crowd that she just might do it.

By this point, Maria, another McDonalds worker on duty, had already gathered her things in the back and walked directly out from behind the counter into a thundering crowd and several hugs, leaving the counter door behind her swinging enticingly.

Marta continued to pace and talk to her managers, who shrugged at whatever she said. Then Marta disappeared. When she returned, her black purse was hanging on her shoulder and her sweater was draped over her arm.

The crowd erupted —“¡Si se puede! ¡Si se puede!” (Yes, we can!) — as Marta pushed through the door without looking back. She clapped and danced as the crowd engulfed her with the chanting.

This was the scene at the Jackson Street McDonald’s in Oakland, Calif. on Thursday. And while it was unique in character, it mirrored scenes from 158 U.S. cities and 93 international cities, making this global fast-food strike the largest in history, spanning 36 countries. What started as a New York City fast-food strike in Nov. 2012 has now grown into a worldwide movement energized enough and rooted in such a clear value of fairness it could arguably be labeled the civil rights movement of our time — complete with heroes like Marta risking their livelihoods to do what they believe is right.

At least, that's how Rhonesha Victor sees it. Victor has worked at KFC/Taco Bell for two years, and joined the strike Thursday to demand a $15 hourly wage and a union — a fight she sees as more significant than most realize.

Like the beginning of any long movement, the low-wage worker movement began with workers’ recognition that they weren’t alone. For many, this is still the best part of participating in the struggle.

Maria Garcia, who has worked at Wendy’s for six years, loves that this unity has given workers the support they need to speak out about their work conditions. “I love doing this because it makes people notice that they need to raise their voices,” Garcia said through her daughter, who translated her words.

Join the Human Rights Campaign if you believe that everyone has the right to marry the person they love.
