
Kathryn Major of Boca Raton — the girlfriend of actress/celebrity Lindsay Lohan's father — will spend nearly the next six months in Palm Beach County Jail.

Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Sandra McSorley on Monday sentenced Major, 31, who pleaded guilty May 1 to violating the terms of her three-year probation from a 2012 criminal case.

Major and the State Attorney's Office agreed to an eight-month jail term, with credit for 70 days already served in custody. The terms, announced by prosecutor Marci Rex and defense attorney Michelle Suskauer, were approved by the judge.

Major broke down in tears before leaving the courtroom. McSorley gave her permission to quickly collect personal belongings from a Lake Worth substance abuse treatment facility where she's been confined.

Michael Lohan, who reportedly was removed from the same courtroom May 1 because of an outburst, was not present for Monday's hearing.

Major's problems with the law started in January 2012, when Boca Raton police accused her of getting into a drunken confrontation with four people, including a police officer, according to an arrest report. In June 2013, five charges against Major were resolved with the probation sentence.

Then, at about 7:34 p.m. March 13, Boca Raton police responded to a 911 call from Michael Lohan at the couple's home in the 7700 block of Northeast Morningside Terrace. Lohan, 54, told officers Major appeared to be drunk and she angrily accused him of hiding car keys.

Lohan said Major repeatedly tried to slap him, but he put his hand out to block her. Major scratched his face, before grabbing keys to a red BMW and driving away, police said.

While the officers were outside speaking with Lohan, they spotted Major's car driving by, according to a report that identified her as Lohan's "paramour." She was pulled over and arrested for DUI and domestic battery.

Prosecutors dropped the battery charge March 26. In another courtroom Monday, Major was placed on probation for the DUI, her first such offense.
