
“It is always the same story. It is more strange how fast we are with the new tyre, than how slow we are in the race” – Andrea Dovizioso.

Andrea Dovizioso's hopes of a strong race from Ducati's first front row start of the year began perfectly when he led the opening three laps of Sunday's French MotoGP.

But after a spirited battle Dovizioso was forced to surrender the lead to Valentino Rossi, then plummeted back to eighth place within a handful of laps, where he would ultimately finish.

Despite pre-race optimism, Dovizioso revealed that the usual Ducati issues had decided his grand prix. On new tyres with maximum edge grip he had been able to battle with the best, but once the edge grip was lost he was helpless.

New Ducati Corse general manager Gigi Dall'Igna has warned that it will take time to identify and implement the correct design changes for the Desmosedici, but the riders may be starting to get a little impatient.

Dovizioso, who crossed the line 22 seconds from race winner Marc Marquez, said: “There is really no explanation different than I have already explained since the beginning of last year. I mean the reason is always the same. It is more strange how fast we are with the new tyre, than how slow we are in the race.

“The limit is always the same. With the new tyre on the first laps, we are not able to do the best line, but we have a 'specialty' with our bike and it is enough to make a good lap time.

“After that when the tyre drops - also more than the other competitors, which is one of the reasons - the main point is always the turning of the bike. Today I think the tyre was quite soft for everybody especially the front. Nobody was able to push really hard in braking and the middle of the corner, so it made more of a difference how good the bike is in turning.

Dovizioso added that even when leading he had mixed feelings.

Team-mate Cal Crutchlow concluded a difficult weekend, spent almost entirely outside of the top ten, in eleventh place. The result marked only his second finish for Ducati after accidents, injuries and technical problems.

“From a point of view of putting a positive spin on the situation, it is the first race I've finished in three grands prix,” he said. “Obviously Texas was the crash, I missed Argentina and in the last race we had a brake failure, or issue. Whatever you want to call it.

“We always knew that the problem around this circuit was going to be with the understeer, but at least we can look at the situation and say we are consistent. 20 something seconds from the winner is the same as Andrea in Texas, Argentina and Jerez. So we are consistent, but consistently a little bit too slow.

“I think this is the reality. The Ducatis would all have finish together today. I made a mistake, ran off track and lost a little bit the time. But even if Iannone was in the race he would have finished in the same group as us again.

However Crutchlow is not aware of any new developments for Ducati's home grand prix.

“I don't think so. I've not heard or even asked. In the end I'm not bothered if anything new comes. I know that the information to Gigi is crucial, but he knows the situation and the problem. I can't ask them to improve the bike immediately. You can't just go and build something overnight. We know this doesn't happen in MotoGP.

In addition to understeer, Crutchlow's other issues include problems under braking and a lack of single-lap speed.

“In practice and qualifying I'm nowhere near Dovi or Iannone. But in the race it's possible for me to battle with them. It's about confidence with the bike, to be able to do a fast lap time. I feel unable to do that with this bike.

“We know over the years [a fast lap] has been one of my strong points. So once the confidence comes maybe we'll be faster in practice, but there's no point being fast in the practice and no good in the race.

Under new rules for this season, Ducati is allowed the same engine, tyre and testing concessions as the Open class. However all Ducati riders, other than Iannone - who fell on the second lap - raced with the same soft compound rear tyre as the Factory class Honda and Yamaha riders.

Sorry, due to abuse from people posting SPAM, we no longer allow web addresses to be posted in comments.

Please login or register before adding your comments.

Although the administrators and moderators of this website will attempt to keep all objectionable comments off these pages, it is impossible for us to review all messages. All messages express the views of the poster, and neither Crash Media Group nor Crash.Net will be held responsible for the content of any message. We do not vouch for or warrant the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any message, and are not responsible for the contents of any message. If you find a message objectionable, please contact us and inform us of the problem or use the [report] function next to the offending post. Any message that does not conform with the policy of this service can be edited or removed with immediate effect.

Just imagine if they weren't being given an artificial advantage in engine/fuel/tyres compared to the other factory bikes, how far behind would they be then?!

Codger: Dr Relliscada......."Before Rossis Abomination Ducati had issues but hit victories and podiums."  Before you use the term 'Rossi's Abomination' you need to work out whether you are a Stoner fanatic or a Rossi hater.

I am an Stoner fan, and a Ducatista, so I hate Rossi for what he made to OUR bike. I do own 2 Dukes, both with Trellis frames. Capirex, and even Elias on the private made good results in the Duke. In 2006 before the Montmelo disaster Capirex was dominating the championship. Bayliss came to Cheste as a guest to fill a gap and won the race on the GP06. Ducati is more than a name for us, and a Ducati on a Deltabox is like a sleeping with your enemy.

Get over it.  The GP, in any form, was never YOUR bike or ANYBODY's bike.  It bares no resemblance to any Ducati that YOU nor I ride (..and yes I have owned and raced Ducati's too).
