
Thirty five workers died on the job in Wyoming in 2012 -- the most since 2007.

Simmons, Jordan, Dowdy and the others who died last year -- we don't even know all the names yet -- are a sobering reminder of the danger of some jobs in Wyoming. This annual accounting means it's time to evaluate our progress on worker safety and see what we should do next.

That's why we call on lawmakers to use this summer to step up, call for an accounting of progress on worker safety, and hash out a legislative plan that aggressively pushes the state and its most dangerous industries forward to build a culture of safety in the state. We call on the Legislature, specifically the Joint Minerals, Business and Economic Development Committee, to restart the conversation about substantive ways to improve and assess the safety of workers in the state.

Recent years have brought some positive steps, with new worker safety initiatives in effect. There's the Wyoming Oil and Gas industry Safety Alliance, an oil and natural industry worker safety group allied with the state. There's a safety group comprised of the state's refiners -- a much-needed conversation between refiners who in 2012 faced more safety violations per barrel than refiners in any other state, according to a Star-Tribune analysis.

On the state side, there's state workplace epidemiologist Mack Sewell, who in his role as a "safety champion" serves as a new center-point of workplace safety and death data, the analysis of which will pay dividends for policymakers, particularly when a hard count of those who have died lags so far behind the present day. In recent years, the state added to its ranks of work safety inspectors, although their numbers are still very thin, and the state put together a grant program to help companies out with safety measures.

Let's restart the conversation about worker safety -- where we're at, and where we should be. The 35 workers who died in 2012 bear witness we've got a way to go.

Copyright 2014 Casper Star-Tribune Online. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Conversation?  It's 'way past time for "conversation".  The deadbeat servants of wealth in the "legislature" need to quit selling out to the Chamber of Commerce and start acknowledging the "suckers" who voted for them and pass worker safety laws that mean something ... like prison terms in addition to huge fines for employers who violate them, including CEOs of big corporations, the jerks who are ultimately responsible for deaths of and injuries to what they consider expendable workers.  Let 'em know who's in charge.  There are far more of us than there are of those wealthy scum.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
