
Yesterday theTripoli parliament of was attacked. But the government claims to still have the situation under control. Clashes have been raging for days in Benghazi. Khalifa Haftar, a former genera , first friend, then foe of Gaddafi says he wants to clear the nation of Islamist militias and rebuild a new government. The production of crude oil at record lows.

Tripoli ( AsiaNews / Agencies) - Representatives of the Libyan government claim that they still have the control of the country in hand, despite repeated attacks by militias on Benghazi and the parliament houses in Tripoli.

From a "safe place" , Parliament Speaker Nuri Abu Sahmain, said that the Assembly is still working. But the police chief, Mukhtar Fernana, last night reported that Parliament has been suspended and will be replaced by a group of 60 people.

Fernana is spokesman for Khalifa Haftar, a former general of the Libyan army, whose troops occupied the parliament yesterday . Accused of trying to carry out a coup, he claims he wants to clear the country of Islamist militias who have "hijacked the government".

Three days ago Haftar troops attacked Islamist militants in Benghazi. Even this morning they targeted an air base in the eastern part of the country.

Since the fall of the Gaddafi regime, Libya has been immersed in political chaos and the same parliament is divided into groups that cater to various militias of former rebels, Islamists and non.

What is unclear, is the support for Haftar among the army ranks and armed groups. He took part in the 2011 revolution against Gaddafi. He was a general in the army in the days of the kingdom of Libya. In 1969 he took part in the coup that brought Gaddafi to power , but his friendship with Colonel ended after the disastrous war with Chad . He was rescued by the United States who offered him political asylum. From the U.S. he began to work for the fall of Gaddafi . In 2011 , at the beginning of the revolution against the colonel, he returned to Benghazi. He attempted to become army chief, but the new government never fully trusted him, believing him to be overly ambitious. Last February he released a video in which he announced an "initiative" to suspend the interim government and the parliament, guilty of again delayed elections that were to be held in February to the end of this year.

The head of the Chaldean Church is grateful for the AsiaNews campaign and hopes that "this chain of solidarity will reach far and wide”. Helping refugees to remain in Iraq. But many want to flee abroad. The bishop of Amadiyah where thousands of displaced people have found haven in churches and homes: We also help the Arabs (Muslims), and Yazidis, for free and without looking at our confessional differences.

For Mgr Vincent Zhu Weifang, from the official Church, the campaign of destruction is increasing social instability. It is real persecution against the Christian faith. The bishop apologises for failing to intervene sooner.  He was hoping that the campaign would end quickly. Catholics and Protestants suffer injuries as they attempt to defend their sacred buildings. For priests in Wenzhou, the campaign is unfair and touches buildings that have all the right papers. Such "stupid acts" by the government are undermining social harmony.
