
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

JACKSON, MI – Here is the Jackson Business Roundup, where I recap the top Jackson business stories that you might have missed from the past week.

'MUFFIN TOP' AD – A plastic surgery practice in Jackson hopes residents see the humor in its newest advertisement after several Facebook fans were displeased with its previous billboard. Ann Arbor Plastic Surgery, which has a Jackson location at 900 E. Michigan Ave. and in Ann Arbor, has new billboards in town that show two muffins in jeans  with the slogan "Friends don't let friends muffin top."

VERMEULEN'S OPENS NEW STOREFRONT – Lynn Vermeulen is eager to see what customers think of the new showroom for his family's decades-long business in Jackson. Vermeulen, president of Vermeulen's Home Furnishings, said employees and contractors have been working diligently to renovate the former Felpausch store , a 53,000-square-foot building that had an old concrete floor when Vermeulen bought it in December.

KLAVON'S NEW EATERY OPENING SOON – Klavon's Pizzeria and Pub south is close enough to opening that management has started to fill out its staff . Klavon's is looking to hire 100 to 150 employees, including experienced line cooks, prep cooks, dishwashers and a limited number of servers, hosts, hostesses and bussers.

MANUFACTURER BUYS OUT-OF-STATE COMPANY – An Albion-based manufacturer that makes heavy-duty industrial casters and wheels has bought an Illinois suspension systems company. Caster Concepts , 16000 E. Michigan Ave., recently announced it purchased Rockford, Ill.-based Modern Suspension Systems, "a pioneer in shock absorption casters" for the past 50 years.

UTILITY PUSHES FOR CLEANER AIR – Improving Michigan's air quality is a top priority for Consumers Energy as the utility invests billions of dollars  to make its operations cleaner and more efficient, President and CEO John Russell said. The company plans to retire seven smaller, coal-fired plants by April 2016 to be in compliance with federal Clean Air Act regulations and wants to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 25 percent by 2020.

Come back to the main  Jackson business page  for more news throughout the week, and make sure to follow me on  Twitter . Thanks!

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
