
Adam Guyot tattoos a ribbon on Shayne Managbanag on Sunday morning. The ribbon is in honor of Managbanag's grandmother who passed away of throat cancer.

Tattoos cure cancer.

While technically not true, that sentiment, coupled with thousands of dollars raised by virtue of the sentiment, means small, but meaningful steps taken toward a bold and laudable dream.

For Santa Clarita, Calif., tattoo artist Adam Guyot, the idea actually came to him in the form of a dream.

Guyot got nonprofit status quickly and began holding “Tattoos Cure Cancer” fundraisers at his Eternal Art Tattoo studio in Santa Clarita. People who could relate to Guyot’s story came through the doors in droves to get the ribbons commemorating their own cancer stories, and all proceeds were donated to cancer charities. Before long, Guyot’s fundraising concept was a sensation. His charitable efforts even landed him a feature story in Inked Magazine.

Meanwhile, some clients of Byron Bullets’ Bridge City Ink in Lake Havasu City got wind of the idea and began exchanging photos on Instagram with Guyot.

On Saturday, the two studio owners met for the first time. On Sunday, the first Tattoos Cure Cancer event, not held at Guyot’s own shop, took place at Bridge City Ink, which Bullets opened in August.

And plenty of others, it would seem as Havasuvians poured into the shop to get tattoos of cancer ribbons starting at a donation of $50, going up depending on the size and detail of the work. Customers who showed up looking for a regular tattoo were told to come back tomorrow. It was a commerce-free day at Bridge City Ink, as Bullets, fellow Lake Havasu artist Al Lytle from Stutter Tattoo, Guyot, and two guest artists spent the day doing ribbons with 100 percent of the proceeds going toward cancer charities.

At 3 p.m., Bullets estimated that if traffic kept the same pace, the event would raise in excess of $5,000 between the tattoos and the raffles.

Sunday’s turnout didn’t come near what Guyot has become used to after 22 years in Santa Clarita, but he considered it a success all the same.

Guyot said he’s done conventions in Salt Lake City, Orange County and Washington D.C., but Sunday’s event in Havasu was the first multiple-artist road show in the history of Tattoos Cure Cancer, which turns 1 in July.

Guyot said he plans to come back, even if his charity mission grows coast-to-coast legs.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
