
THE plan of the Department of Health’s (DOH) to revise Republic Act (RA) 8504 or the Philippine Aids Prevention and Control Act of 1998, specifically on the proposal to make HIV testing mandatory, drew mixed reactions both from workers and health officials.

In a recent news report, Dr. Lyndon Lee Suy, the newly appointed DOH spokesman, said that the HIV-Aids-STI unit of the agency and the Philippine National Aids Council (PNAC) have considered revising the Aids law through talks with lawmakers.

'Not allowed'

The Aids law, however, made it clear that compulsory HIV testing is not permitted.

Despite Suy’s pronouncement, a regional DOH official, countered that it might not be a sensible move since stigma and discrimination are still attached to people living with HIV (PLHIVs) and Aids in the country.

Dr. Evelyn Magsayo, DOH HIV-Aids program manager, said she is not too keen on the idea hatched by the health department and PNAC.

“It’s not yet time for the mandatory of HIV testing. Not in the Philippines. Siguro sa abroad, pwede ‘yun. Pero dito? (Not at all. Perhaps, abroad is possible, but here?)," Magsayo said.

Magsayo believes that the Filipinos are not yet prepared in dealing with this because there is “already too much stigma and discrimination here,” citing the work sector as an example.

“If it becomes mandatory, the company will then conduct tests. For action, they will make policies and my fear is that the company might discriminate the PLHIV and worse, kick them out [of the] workplace,” Magsayo added.

Counseling is one alternative to the voluntary testing, she said, adding that the Social Hygiene Clinic (SHC) based at the Northern Mindanao Medical Center (NMMC) can help PLHIV cope with their situation.

“The counseling component includes why the interested registrant would want to be tested. Hindi kasi prepared ang tao naturally, eh. Having HIV is not an easy thing. Lifetime ‘yan. In the mandatory testing, it might not be included eh,” Magsayo said.

She said she is worried that the readiness of the PLHIV, the family and the community might not be considered in the mandatory HIV testing.

“The law protects the people and the public,” she said.

However, some people are not yet sure whether making it mandatory will be feasible.

“It would be nice if it’s not by force, or mandatory in that sense. If the couples know they are doing safe sex, then there’s nothing to be scared of,” said ‘Leslie’ (not his real name).

Leslie is a homosexual who is from this city but is now working in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, as a fashion designer.

But Marco (surname withheld) disagrees with Leslie’s opposition to the proposed revision of the AIDS law, who does not see any problem with it being mandatory in the future.

“It is just for our own good and to the people who are still not a victim of HIV since there is no drug yet. I believe testing has to be done to protect us from having this growing population of (PLHIV),” he said.

“I am happy knowing that there are civic groups which are concerned on this case since I’ve heard that Cagayan de Oro emerged as the top on having HIV cases. I hope this mandatory testing will be done as soon as possible,” he added.

Jake (surname withheld), who works in the business process outsourcing (BPO) sector, however, thinks the mandatory testing is not the ultimate resolution to the growing number of the HIV cases in the country.

“The test shouldn’t be forced on anyone, but HIV is an issue where everyone is involved and affected. Education should be the key driver in addressing the problem. The public should be taught about the disease through tri-media campaigns and it should also be discussed inside classrooms,” he said.

“I have no issue if private companies issue the requirement for testing. As long as they treat the tests confidential with due respect on the rights of the individuals,” he added.

In a recent story that appeared in Sun.Star Cagayan de Oro, it said there are now 30 new cases in Northern Mindanao today.

DOH said the count is already alarming since it rose steeply this year from last year’s count, six of which are from here and the 22 others are from other areas of the region.

The health department added that PLHIV fall into the 24-45 age bracket, 30 percent of which are at age 24 and belongs to the working group.

Published in the Sun.Star Cagayan de Oro newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
