
A WOMAN has described the tears of relief that washed over her as they “got the bastard” and arrested Rolf Harris four decades after he allegedly indecently groped her on the dance floor in New Zealand.

Three women from different corners of the world gave evidence against the 84-year-old entertainer yesterday including one who alleged he apologised to her moments after an assault.

A New Zealand woman told the court she was working for a wine company serving sparkling wine at a function on North Island in 1970 when she was about 16 years.

She said she saw the then famous star and had asked him for an autograph. He in turned asked her for a dance and it was while they were on the dance floor of the function at a local restaurant that he allegedly assaulted her.

“In a flash, in a moment I saw the dark side of a man who I thought could be trusted,” the woman said.

The woman cried in court as she recalled how she pulled away and after collecting her belongings immediately left the venue before her shift had finished. She later told her mother but did not report it to police. In 2013 when Harris was arrested the woman described her elation.

“Oh I told you they’d finally get the bastard, I was so relieved, all these years later it was unbelievable the relief I felt,” she said after she contacted an Australian media group to help find a contact for police to report the incident.

Under cross examination by Harris’ lawyer Sonia Woodley QC she reacted with anger at suggestions she had made the story up and the “twisting of her words”.

“How do you sleep at night?” she asked Ms Woodley loudly to which the lawyer replied she had a job to do.

Another witness from the UK then described how she was allegedly assaulted while on holiday in Malta with a boyfriend. She said Harris had given the couple some advice on where there was a doctor after the boyfriend cut his foot. The woman returned to the beach bar where they had encountered Harris and two men to thank him and let him know things were okay. It was at this point the woman, then 18 years old, said she saw a large framed drawing on the wall of two little boys with two rocking horses in the bar which Harris confirmed he had painted. He then invited her to a back room ostensibly to see other works.

The woman alleged Harris had pushed her up against a wall in the room and started to kiss her. She said she initially felt flattered by a friendly kiss but then it turned “slobbery” and he put his hands over her breasts and later under her skirt, into her underwear and into her vagina and grabbed her hand and put it over his clothes onto his penis. She said the motion was all very quick when he suddenly stopped, cuddled her and said “I’m sorry” before leading her back out to the bar area.

An earlier witness from Darwin recalled 1969 when she was staying with friends as a sick 11 year old and Harris, also staying at the home, asked her how old she was.

She said she told him and he then allegedly replied “Good I want to be the first one to introduce you to a tongue kiss”.

“I just stood there, I didn’t say anything, I froze … then he walked up towards me,” she said and described the kiss which she said had affected her relationships and intimacy for years.

Under cross examination Ms Woodley asked if it was that incident that affected her relationships or the fact she had been allegedly assaulted by a cousin when she was 17 to which the woman said it was the Harris assault when she was a child.

Harris has pled not guilty to 12 counts of indecent assault.

The case is continuing.
