
Some 800 airport officials and aviation experts from 72 countries will be flocking to Seoul next week to participate in the general assembly of the Airports Council International, one of the industry’s largest gatherings.

Incheon International Airport, which has been named the “best airport” in Asia this year, will host the three-day event that kicks off on May 26 at Coex in Samseong-dong, southern Seoul.

The ACI, established in 1991, is a nonprofit association of some 1,800 global airport operators in 177 countries. It is the first time for the event to be held in South Korea.

Under the theme “Serving the Customer and the Community” this year, airport leaders from around the world will discuss diverse government policies and training programs for manager-level officials on airport operation, management, security, economy and environment.

Olumuyiwa Benard Aliu, president of the International Civil Aviation Organization, will deliver a keynote speech. Other VIP guests include ACI Asia-Pacific president Tan Sri Bashir Abdul Majid, Brussels Airport CEO Arnaud Feist and Changi Airport chief information officer Steve Lee.

The two-day conference on May 27 and 28 will consist of four sessions: “Leadership ― The art of herding cats!”; “The drive to customer service excellence”; Reaching a sustainable balance”; and “Resilience”: Best practices and emerging trends.

The highlight of the annual gathering may be the award ceremony and gala dinner for Airport Service Quality on May 27.

Incheon Airport has won the award for nine consecutive years since 1996. Amid fiercer competition among Asian airports, the Korean airport will receive top honors in two categories: the Asia-Pacific and airports with 25 million to 40 million users.

“International airport transport has experienced tremendous changes in recent years. This year’s event will present a clearer picture of challenges we are facing and may suggest better ways of mutual cooperation,” said Incheon Airport’s acting president Choi Hong-yeol.
