
Tae Hee Kim graduates this May with a doctorate in public administration.

Tae Hee Kim enjoyed studying Shakespeare and literature in her native South Korea. But when she took her first course in public administration, she knew she'd found her true passion.

After graduating from Konkuk University with undergraduate degrees in public administration and English and a master's in public administration, she decided to pursue doctoral studies at Rutgers after learning of the university’s diverse faculty and student body and its international reputation in her field.

This month, she will receive a Ph.D. in public administration from Rutgers' School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) and begin a tenure track position as an assistant professor in the Department of Public Administration at the University of Hawaii at Manoa this fall.

At Hawaii - Manoa, Kim will continue her research on effective ways to reward and motivate public servants and will teach courses on human resource management and comparative studies.

Her research suggests lots of opportunity ahead. She believes public employees often do not receive enough positive feedback to remain motivated. Work needs to be done, she says, to resolve common civil service conflict – when a worker is denied a promotion because of a low civil service test score regardless of a strong performance evaluation.

Her frequent conference appearances also enhanced her exposure and enabled her to develop a strong personal network. “For me, as an international student who needed to practice her presentation skills, it’s extremely helpful if you can go to a conference and practice in front of different audiences,” Kim says. She also appreciates conferences for the inherent constructive criticism from well-known scholars.

Still, the Ridgefield resident's chosen career direction has caused her anxiety over being separated from family and friends in South Korea for extensive periods of time. When she departs for Hawaii, she will live apart – at least temporarily – from her husband, Ik Mo An, a master’s degree candidate at SPAA. They hope their separation will not last beyond a year.

In the interim, Kim will concentrate on her new teaching role and the dynamics of public performance management.
