
One of the East of England Ambulance Service's new ambulances.

Under-fire ambulance chiefs have apologised after leaving a woman in agony for an hour following a car crash in Swavesey.

Office workers who helped the trapped pensioner have branded the wait a “disgrace”.

The woman, in her 60s, was injured in the two-vehicle crash which happened in High Street and involved a Volvo and a Mercedes.

Nicola Collins, who works at the offices of Dean and Dean nearby, rushed to the woman’s aid along with other workers.

She said: “Rosie was falling in and out of consciousness and she was in a lot of pain. The police were great and got there in 25 minutes. But after 40 minutes there was no ambulance.

“A policeman told me his control room had tried to get an ambulance too and asked if I could call again. I dialled 999 and was on the phone for another eight minutes until they said they would despatch one which got there in about 10 minutes.

“It was horrible waiting there for so long. We thought she’d had a heart attack.

An East of England Ambulance Service spokesman disputed it had taken an hour and said it was 45 minutes.

He added: “We apologise to Rosie for the delay in getting an ambulance to her. This is why, under new Chief Executive Anthony Marsh, we have launched a campaign to recruit hundreds of student paramedics, increase ambulance cover and maximise the amount of clinicians we have on the front line now.

A 34-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of drink driving after the crash which happened at 2.27pm last Wednesday.

Cambridge City News, all of the latest breaking stories from Cambridge. Read all about the local events, new jobs on offer and properties for sale as well as keeping up to date with local news stories. Cambridge City News allows you to keep up to date with breaking news stories and forthcoming events located within Cambridge. Our reporters attend Cambridge events, carry out interviews within the community and most importantly report on breaking news stories. Cambridge News also offers local news stories from the surrounding villages.
