
There's still time for people to put forward their nominations for the Manchester Schools Awards.

Sponsored by The Manchester College, there are 10 categories to choose from – for pupils, teachers, classes and even whole schools.

If you think your school is the best, your class is amazing, your teacher is tops or your headteacher is fabulous, then tell us about them.

There are also categories to recognise school support staff, schools that promote healthy living and schools that are active in the community.  We even have a category for the best school newspaper or website.

There will be a certificate of entry for everyone who takes part but our panel of judges will have the difficult decision of deciding the finalists which will be revealed next month.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
