
However, if you take the emotion out of it, demotion may be a better solution than losing your job altogether. It can be a way to more appropriately position yourself within a business if you are providing valuable skills but not coping in your current role. The classic situation is where an employee who is highly effective and technically competent is elevated into a management position.

After some time, it becomes apparent that they lack the skills to effectively manage and take on those senior level responsibilities. They are a do'er, not a leader. An agreed demotion can resolve that issue. But where a sideways shift is imposed - not agreed - it may well result in a personal grievance if it is not justified. Even if an employee is still paid at the same level, the loss of status and opportunity can lead to a claim against an employer.

Generally speaking, an employer can only justify imposing a demotion in circumstances where dismissal may otherwise be justified.

In this context, dismissal should be a last resort and an employer should consider and explore other options fully, even if the employee in question has misconducted themselves in a serious way.

Catherine Dodd was employed by the Ministry of Justice as a court manager and registrar. Her nephew was prosecuted for assaulting his former domestic partner. Dodd phoned the former partner to try to persuade her to submit a more favourable victim impact statement for her nephew. Behind her employer's back, Dodd had accessed her nephew's records on the ministry's computer system on a number of occasions to provide his lawyer with information.

The ministry investigated, Dodd acknowledged her wrongdoing, admitted her actions constituted serious misconduct, but promised not to repeat it. After concluding its investigation, the ministry dismissed Dodd for abusing her position.

The court held the dismissal was unjustified.

Why? The court found that the ministry did not place enough weight on Dodd's assurance that there would be no repeat behaviour, and did not conduct wider inquires of court staff to determine if Dodd's promise not to repeat her misdemeanour was reliable.

Had the ministry done so, the court found that it would have been satisfied that despite the serious misconduct, the likelihood of repeat behaviour was low, and trust and confidence in Dodd could be restored. The ministry had failed to properly consider alternatives to dismissal, including the possibility of temporary or permanent demotion with appropriate supervision and retraining, or loss of remuneration.

The case concluded that in appropriate serious misconduct cases, temporary demotion could be justified even if not expressly provided for in the employment agreement (in Dodd's case, both demotion and reassignment were provided for). So, for employers, even where serious misconduct is established, failing to consider other options - including demotion - can be fatal.

Sometimes demotion arises for an employer out of necessity, but that won't necessarily free the employer from legal consequences.

In 2009, Air New Zealand pilot and flight instructor David McAlister won his battle in the Supreme Court for age discrimination.

McAlister had been demoted from his role as a senior pilot flying 747s, to a lower role as a first officer, when he turned 60.

The rationale for the demotion was that Air New Zealand was attempting to comply with an International Civil Aviation Organisation standard which prevented any pilot-in-command from flying within US airspace if they were over the age of 60. McAlister successfully claimed that although he was capable and qualified, age was the material factor in demoting him, contrary to the prohibition against discrimination in the Employment Relations Act.

The Supreme Court found in favour of McAlister. and referred the case back to the Employment Court, and it appears that the claim was settled out of court, as no hearing was ever held.

These cases demonstrate that demotion is an option that shouldn't be overlooked but needs to handled carefully.

Ideally it should be implemented by agreement between the employer and the employee.

However in some cases employers will be justified in imposing a demotion. This should usually only occur as an alternative to dismissal, in which case the employee may be less inclined to object.
