
articles remaining before being asked to register or login.

PHILADELPHIA — The industrial Northeast enjoys a reputation as a cradle of liberalism, a region that voted overwhelmingly for America's first black president, started the push on same-sex marriage rights and can reliably be found at the forefront of causes for equality. But there is a notable gap: The Democratic Party has yet to elect a female governor in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island or Massachusetts.

Here on Philadelphia's west side, a crowd that had gathered Thursday to hear one of the women running for governor, U.S. Rep. Allyson Schwartz, concentrated more on eating their fried chicken than on listening to her speech, at least until Schwartz concluded her remarks with a reminder about the stakes in Tuesday's primary. "With your help, I will be the next governor, the first woman governor," she said, winning only her second sustained applause of the night, much of it from the women in the room.

In addition to Pennsylvania, women in Massachusetts and Rhode Island are vying to break the statehouse glass ceiling. But in all three states, they face contentious primaries. "The Western states have done much better," Schwartz said in an interview as an aide drove her to another male-dominated meeting of the city's Democratic organization. "The pioneer states just treated women equally from the start."

It is no quirk of history, according to a few dozen politicians, scholars and strategists who have examined or experienced firsthand the difficulties women have had in seeking to become chief executives in some of the flagship states of blue America.

"To say the old boys' club is alive and well is true but trivializes the impact that the vestiges of sexism have on women's opportunities to lead," said state Sen. Barbara Buono of New Jersey, who ran for her state's governorship last year, but found little support from its Democratic bosses and was trounced by the incumbent, Gov. Chris Christie. Governor's races are typically the most coveted political prizes in these states because they bring with them the most patronage jobs, the sort of clout that mostly male power brokers are reluctant to relinquish. Further, unlike with some wealthy men who have successfully run outside of the party apparatus, there have been few Democratic women willing or able to fund their own campaigns.

Beyond the region's political culture, the states' demography has also traditionally worked against women. "They are older, with a blue-collar electorate in an industrial economy and a heavy Catholic population," said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster.

Women have become the crucial element of the Democratic coalition in the era of President Barack Obama, propelling both his victories and those of many others in the party, but there is just one female Democratic governor in America today — Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire. It's different in the Senate, where a record 16 Democratic women hold office. The difference, several analysts said, is that senators are seen as advocates working in a collective body, while governors are stand-alone executives — and that voters are simply more comfortable with women in the first category than the second.

"Convincing voters that women can serve where the buck stops is still a hurdle," said Debbie Walsh, who heads the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University.

Emily's List, which backs Democratic women who support abortion rights, has helped elect 19 women to the Senate but only 10 female governors in its 29-year history. "Until the last 40 years, many folks didn't see women as executives," said Stephanie Schriock, the head of Emily's List.

But some prominent women concede that a major challenge is one of their own making. "The biggest issue is really getting women to run," observed former Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan, a Democrat, who added that some women see high-profile campaigns as "dipping their toes in waters full of piranhas."

In this year's governor's races, the women running in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Massachusetts are handling their identities in markedly different ways. Schwartz, the only woman in Pennsylvania's 20-member congressional delegation, is unambiguous: Her stump speech highlights the potentially historic nature of her candidacy, and her TV ads vow to break up "the old boys' club" in Harrisburg, the state capital. Schwartz's race is complicated by the fact that another woman, Katie McGinty, is also seeking the nomination and could split the gender-based vote to the benefit of their opponent Tom Wolf, a self-funder who has a sizable lead in polls.

In Massachusetts, a similar dynamic has not diminished the front-runner status of Martha Coakley, the state attorney general, whose opponents include another woman, Juliette Kayyem, as well as the state treasurer, Steve Grossman.

Both Coakley and Kayyem said it was a positive to have more than one woman in the race, and each downplayed gender. Asked if she thought her gender was a factor in her 2010 Senate loss to Scott Brown, Coakley said, "I can't say specifically that that played a role." And she projected an optimistic view of whether Massachusetts was ready to finally elect a woman to the statehouse on Beacon Hill two years after sending Elizabeth Warren to the Senate.

"We recognize it's time to move on, and the good news is that we are moving on," Coakley said.

In Rhode Island, state Treasurer Gina Raimondo is striking a similar balance, alluding to her gender in the context of a broader message about how the state needs leadership from outside the entrenched political class.

"Rhode Island politics have been dominated by insiders and the well-connected, an insider political class that's not particularly embracing of new people, and frankly that's part of the reason we have the highest unemployment rate in country," she said.

Yet Raimondo enjoys some official support from elements of her state's party establishment, as do Schwartz and Coakley — a sign that gender politics in this region are becoming more complicated. But women who have run in these states in the past and lost — recalling critiques about their appearance in the press and all manner of patronizing comments — still worry about sentiments below the surface.

Myrth York, a Rhode Island Democrat who lost three gubernatorial races, lamented, "I'm not sure we're as progressive a state as we think we are or are portrayed."

Lynn Yeakel, who ran for both Senate and governor in Pennsylvania during the 1990s, spoke of an enduring "double standard" and recalled that as recently as 20 years ago some of her female supporters, nicknamed "The Babushka Set," had to hide her campaign materials from their husbands.

Even women who did break the gender barrier by winning the governor's race faced gender-tinged criticism. Buono recalled that when she was in the New Jersey Assembly and Gov. Christie Todd Whitman, a Republican, was in office some legislators would refer to Whitman's administration as "the estrogen palace" or "the broads down the hall."

Some smaller states without the same legacy of industry, labor and politics have sent women to the governor's mansion. The first woman elected governor who had not been a wife or widow of a governor hailed from the industrial northeast: Ella Grasso, a Connecticut Democrat who won the governorship in 1974.

Grasso could "curse a blue streak," as one associate recalled, and she succeeded in a machine-dominated state because she forced her way into the club.
