
Kenya: The body charged with university admissions has asked students who have qualified to study degree and diploma courses to review their applications online.

Kenya University and Colleges Central Placement Services (KUCCPS) Chief Executive John Muraguri said 58,000 students would be admitted study degree courses. An additional 39,000 would be enrolled for diploma courses.

Yesterday, KUCCPS launched its online application system, which will close at midnight on May 31. Through the online platform, candidates can review their choice of courses and validate their applications.

The body has set the cut-off point for admission to bachelor’s degree programmes at B (60 points) for male candidates and B- (58 points) for female candidates.

This is based on the total declared capacity for programmes under Government sponsorship, and the performance analysis of the 2013 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education Examination results released this year.

Muraguri said that candidates must apply online to be admitted and those who had applied, should check, and if need be, revise their cluster subjects.

“All applicants including those who may have submitted their applications earlier, either directly to universities and colleges or through their respective schools, and would wish to revise their choices can do so,” said Muraguri. Speaking to The Standard yesterday at the Placement Headquarters at the Kenya Science College, Muraguri said that all candidates with a minimum overall grade of C- and above are eligible to apply for diploma programmes in various government institutions.

Such candidates can apply to Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC), Teachers Training Colleges (TTCs) and Technical, Industrial and Vocational Training Colleges (TIVET).

Muraguri said that candidates who meet the cut-off point set by the Placement Service for admission to bachelor’s degree programmes may in addition apply for diploma programmes of their choice.

Those below the bachelor’s degree cut-off point but with a minimum of overall grade of C- can only apply for diploma programmes.

According to the rules and guidelines, the minimum placement requirement for bachelor’s degree for candidates who schooled for both their primary and secondary education in counties classified as marginalised areas by CRA 2012 policy is B- (55 points).
