
North Korea is not a country known for openly acknowledging its faults and mistakes. That reputation is one of the reasons that the North Korean state's response to an apartment building collapse in Pyongyang is so remarkable.

The KCNA report on the tragedy was remarkably direct in appointing blame, stating that "the construction of an apartment house was not done properly and officials supervised and controlled it in an irresponsible manner." Photographs from Sunday show officials profusely apologizing to mourning relatives.

The building collapse, which took place on May 13 but wasn't reported until Sunday, appears to be a rare event in the capital city of Pyongyang. It's a big deal, however, for the North Korean leadership: Experts say that Kim Jong-un has tied his reputation to the North Korea's construction boom and he may well be in damage control mode now.

The KCNA report explicitly named a number of officials who were apparently to blame, and added that Kim Jong-un had "sat up all night, feeling painful after being told about the accident, instructed leading officials of the party, state and the army to rush to the scene, putting aside all other affairs, and command the rescue operation to recover from the damage as early as possible."

It makes for awkward reading in the light of North Korean state media's coverage of the recent South Korean ferry disaster. Earlier this month, a KCNA commentary had said that South Korean President Park Geun Hye was "wholly responsible" for the sinking of the Sewol ferry disaster. "This accident was, in a nutshell, the most terrible tragic man-made disaster caused by the Park Geun Hye regime's unpopular rule, incompetence and irresponsibility," the news agency wrote.

Adam Taylor writes about foreign affairs for The Washington Post. Originally from London, he studied at the University of Manchester and Columbia University.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
