
MALVERN, Pa., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --  Ricoh Americas Corporation today unveiled a new ultra short throw projection system that helps companies, departments and groups capture, transform and manage information – ultimately enabling work teams to improve their performance through dynamic collaboration. Presenters can display, underline, highlight, annotate, capture and share projected images that previously would have disappeared when the presentation ended.

Ricoh will demo the new RICOH PJ WX4141N / PJ WX4141NI business projection system at the InfoComm 2014 professional audiovisual show, June 14-20 in Las Vegas in Booth# C5825.

Information mobility is a relatively recent term used to describe the state in which an evolving workforce makes smart and strategic use of technology to manage the information it needs to make intelligent business decisions. It's about how people are using technology to revolutionize how they connect and collaborate.

Collaboration is a trouble spot for both those in an office location as well as those who are remote. In a recent online survey among select industries in the U.S. commissioned by Ricoh, 92 percent of respondents said collaborating in real-time with people in multiple locations is very important, yet those surveyed found this to be a task that is very difficult to do. Nearly 40 percent find it difficult to use different platforms or services to communicate externally from their office, and 41 percent find it difficult to collaborate with coworkers located in other offices.

"This new system exemplifies our commitment to a new collaborative work environment where it's essential to share information among people and locations," said Matt Sakauchi, Vice President, Technology Marketing, Ricoh Americas Corporation. "Now, even when employees can't attend a meeting they can still reap the benefits. And when they are at the meeting, they get more out of the session than they ever have."

The new RICOH PJ WX4141NI (the "I" signifies interactive) incorporates an embedded interactivity sensor to activate an included electronic markup pen. The system turns ordinary whiteboards into immersive electronic palettes by projecting an image onto the board, enabling markup with the pen, and capturing the combined image as a sharable PDF file. Other pen devices require users to hang bulky sensors on the wall.

The PJ WX4141NI can easily communicate with other networkable Ricoh projectors on the local network, enabling users in different conference rooms to simultaneously view and mark up the same presentation. With an optional upgrade to Luidia eBeam® software, users can bring videos, animations, graphics and PowerPoint® slides into the displayed image and save them, along with markups, as Microsoft PowerPoint presentations. eBeam also enables users to collaborate globally via the Internet enabling markup of the same presentation.

The RICOH PJ WX4141NI's interactive pen enables users to digitally draw on a projected image without blemishing the wall or physical whiteboard. The pen can also be used as a remote mouse, enabling presenters to advance slides and circle key points from a distance.

An Interactive Kit can be purchased separately and used to make six other Ricoh projectors interactive. These models include the RICOH PJ X3340 , RICOH PJ WX3340 , RICOH PJ X3340N , RICOH PJ WX3340N , RICOH PJ X4240N and RICOH PJ WX4240N . The Interactive Kit includes a Digital Pen, sensor card, charger cable, batteries and PC software and dongle to register the pen action.

The RICOH PJ WX4141N/PJ WX4141NI projection system casts crisp 1280 x 800 dpi resolution WXGA images of 48 to 80 inches diagonal from as close as 4.6 inches to 9.8 inches to the wall or whiteboard. This incredibly short throw gives presenters plenty of space to maneuver around the room and eliminates distracting shadows. For more convenience, the projection system can be mounted on a wall or ceiling. At 6.6 pounds, it's one of the smallest and lightest projectors in the industry – half the weight of other comparable models – making it easier to carry or mount.

The RICOH PJ WX4141N/PJ WX4141NI projection system is brighter than previous versions at 3,300 lumens and offers a longer lamp life: 5,000 hours in eco-mode. Its audio system offers separate modes for standard delivery, narration and musical accompaniment. The projection system is certified to seamlessly interoperate with Crestron RoomView® and AMX NetLinx® conference room automation systems. Users of those products can operate the projection system from the same browser-based console that operates room lights, shades and screens.

The new projection system offers a 5000:1 contrast ratio and also supports full 3D video. Users simply plug in a Blu-ray player to the HDMI input and don their 3D glasses (available from Ricoh).

The RICOH PJ WX4141NI projection system is available today for an MSRP of $2,550. The projector-only RICOH PJ WX4141N is available for $2,299. The optional Luidia eBeam® software costs $320. All are available through Ricoh professional AV distributors Shoreview Distribution and Stampede .

For details on Ricoh's full line of products, services and solutions, please visit www.ricoh-usa.com .

Ricoh is a global technology company specializing in office imaging equipment, production print solutions, document management systems and IT services. Headquartered in Tokyo, Ricoh Group operates in about 200 countries and regions. In the financial year ending March 2014, Ricoh Group had worldwide sales of 2,236 billion yen (approx. 21.7 billion USD).

The majority of the company's revenue comes from products, solutions and services that improve the interaction between people and information. Ricoh also produces award-winning digital cameras and specialized industrial products. It is known for the quality of its technology, the exceptional standard of its customer service and sustainability initiatives.

Under its corporate tagline, imagine. change. Ricoh helps companies transform the way they work and harness the collective imagination of their employees.

For further information, please visit www.ricoh.com/about/ .

© 2014 Ricoh Americas Corporation. All rights reserved. All referenced product names are the trademarks of their respective companies.
