
His spokesman last night claimed he was trying to 'reply to questions'

A disabled man called police after after a UKIP MEP tried to take a megaphone from him after he used it to question him about his expense claims.

Roger Helmer, was caught on camera rushing over to try and grab the megaphone after he was heckled during a campaign visit.

The 70-year-old, who is standing as an MP in the Newark by-election on June 5, had gone to Retford, Nottinghamshire, on the Ukip battle bus when he was ambushed by Labour protesters.

His spokesman last night claimed he had just been trying to get hold of the megaphone ‘so he could reply to their questions’.

David Challinor, a local councillor and former miner who is registered as disabled following an industrial accident, was shouting ‘please give us your expenses’ through a megaphone when Mr Helmer approached him.

In footage, Mr Helmer can be seen quickly going over to him and reaching to try and get hold of the megaphone.

Then Mr Helmer and others descended on the group. His spokesman claims he was 'responding'

Mr Challinor, who has had five operations on his right arm with which he was holding the megaphone, told the Retford Times: ‘In politics everyone has a right to protest. I am really shocked - I’m protective of my arm as after my accident it was nearly amputated.

Local MP John Mann wrote on Twitter: ‘Roger Helmer’s response to questions about his expenses is to attack protestor in Retford.

‘He broke off press interview to lunge across precinct at expenses protestor in Retford this afternoon.

‘Police have requested and been sent footage of the Helmer incident.’ After the incident, Mr Helmer wrote on Twitter: ‘Sorry to spoil a good rumour, but I’m afraid I have not been arrested by the police.

His spokesman, Paul Oakden, added: ‘Roger had gone to talk to the local press and local people. There was a group of people with a megaphone.

'He tolerated it for so long and then went to talk to the group. He tried to get hold of the megaphone so he could reply to their questions.

Nottingham Police last night said it was making enquiries following a report of the dispute.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
