
Two very different awards events in Sydney in recent days honoured the best supporters of LGBTI Australians, and made fun of the worst comments made about our communities.

Held in the Ivy Ballroom on Friday, the annual Pride in Diversity Awards were a chance to recognise the top 20 Aussie employers for LGBTI people. The score highly on the list, employers must show they have an inclusive culture and supportive attitude to LGBTI people, including engaging with the community and awareness training.

Keynote speakers at the awards were Lieutenant Colonel Cate McGregor and Former High Court Judge Michael Kirby. The Australian arm of financial services group Goldman Sachs won the #1 LGBTI employer award for 2014, and the complete list of Top 20 employers for LGBTI people is shown below.

Individuals Tony Wood from Herbert Smith Freehills, Sally Webster from Curtin University and, Squadron Leader Vince Chong and Flight Sergeant Ronald Kelly from the Department of Defence were also acknowledged for their significant contribution to LGBTI workplace inclusion initiatives.

At the awards, the crew at BT Financial Group confirmed that it has signed on as a major sponsor of the Australian It Gets Better campaign.

Meanwhile at NSW Parliament House, the 2014 GLORIAs Awards was also attended by lots of LGBTI people and their supportive allies, but had a very different mood.

Organised by out gay Labor MLC Penny Sharpe each year, the GLORIAs highlight the worst and most ridiculous comments made about our communities.

Winning the ‘silliest GLBTI comment from someone within the GLBTI community’ category was out gay Federal Election Liberal candidate for Sydney Sean O’Connor for preferencing the Christian Democratic Party (CDP) on his How To Vote card above Tanya Plibersek for Labor and The Greens. Madness!

In sport, Anthony Mundine made this comment about the gay storyline on ABC drama Redfern Now: “Watching redfern now & they promoting homosexuality! (Like it’s ok in our culture) that ain’t in our culture & our ancestors would have there head for it! Like my dad told me GOD made ADAM & EVE not Adam & Steve.” Yikes.

Ugandan Ethics & Integrity Minister Simon Lokodo won the hotly-contested International category. “It is a social style of life that is acquired,” he wrote. “They chose to be homosexual and are trying to recruit others. … If they were doing it in their own rooms we wouldn’t mind, but when they go for children, that’s not fair. They are beasts of the forest…. Homosexuality is unnatural, abnormal and strange to our cultures… It has no output whatsoever; it only does damage and destruction. You cannot have a right to be a sick human being. There is no right in homosexuality. It must be cured…. Excretion is through the anus, like the exhaust of an engine. The human body receives what it takes from the mouth. They’re twisting nature the wrong way. Homosexuality will destroy humanity because there is no procreation; it will destroy health because the backsides will not hold.” Oh boy, where do you even start with this!

Congratulations to all the Pride in Diversity winners, and shame all on you GLORIAs recipients.
