
This is a great time to be a female entrepreneur, as we are surrounded by so much support. There are several groups for women – WEConnect, WIMBIZ, WISCAR, NNEW, among others. On 8 May 2014, I attended the World Economic Forum on Africa (WEFA) Side Event on Gender in Abuja, Nigeria and it was more support for the growth of women in business.

I feel very fortunate to have been raised by a proud feminist in an era where women are encouraged to pursue their professional dreams. My mom, Obafunke Anthonia Motolani, ran a successful business selling her branded Italian leather shoes/bags (LANZONI) on wholesale and retail. She was the first to encourage me to be ambitious, studious, thoughtful and curious. All these she had imparted in me before she passed away almost 21 years ago. This she took seriously because all her children were girls (the three of us) and she was not going to let us be consumed by what she knew as a “Man’s World”.

There have, of course, been challenges – challenges faced by both men and women. However, as millennial female entrepreneurs, we work doubly hard to demonstrate how deeply we understand the landscape we work in, especially in developing and transition economies in Africa.

Stay informed. My mom was all about education, education, education. And she always said education is not just acquired in school. Read newspapers, read books, attend events, travel to new places, be curious…. As an entrepreneur, it is easy to become all consumed with work and to only want to read articles or start discussions based on what we do weekly for more than a 100 hours a week. But you can’t. You must have a deeper sense of what’s happening outside of your bubble. Not only to stay savvy and ahead of world’s shifting trends but so that when you go to the next event, you have something to speak about other than yourself. This is a life-hack to stay educated and well-liked, in the most traditional sense.

At W-HBS, we truly believe in our mission of helping entrepreneurs succeed. Growing up, I saw the impact my mom’s successful business had on our immediate and extended family, our community. In her little way she was able to impact our economy, creating jobs, changing livelihoods, and making a difference. And when I was asked during my last birthday with my mom, what I wanted to be when I grew up. My answer was swift and clear……a businesswoman (entrepreneur) just like my mom.
