
The Canadian Parliament has just concluded its third Iran Accountability Week,  which sounded the alarm on the fourfold threat posed by the Iranian regime – nuclear, terrorist, incitement, and – in particular – the widespread and  systematic violations of the human rights of the Iranian people.  Parliamentarians heard from expert witness testimony on the Iranian threat – particularly the massive domestic repression – while a centerpiece of Iran  Accountability Week was the Global Iranian Political Prisoner Advocacy Project,  wherein parliamentarians “adopted” an Iranian political prisoner, not unlike the  experience with taking up the case and cause of Soviet political  prisoners.

This year’s Iran Accountability Week occurred at a most  propitious time, as Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has been touting his  commitment to “constructive engagement” with the international community,  particularly in the negotiation of a comprehensive nuclear  agreement.

Yet, as nuclear talks resume this week, the systematic and  widespread violations of human rights in Iran are being overshadowed – if not  sanitized – by the preemptive international focus on the nuclear  issue.

It should be recalled that when the US negotiated an arms control  agreement with the Soviet Union in 1975, it did not turn a blind eye to the  USSR’s human rights abuses.

Instead, the Helsinki Final Act linked the  security, economic and human rights “baskets,” with human rights emerging as the  most transformative of the three. Negotiations with Iran should replicate this  approach.

Accordingly, the ongoing nuclear negotiations should neither  distract nor deflect from addressing and redressing the Iranian regime’s massive  domestic repression.

The following constitutes an overview of just a few  of the serious human rights abuses in Iran that continue unabated – or have even  intensified – under Rouhani’s “moderate” presidency.

Prior  to Rouhani’s rise to power, Iran had the highest per capita execution rate in the  world. Yet, the alarming rate of executions has actually increased under Rouhani,  with over 650 executions having been carried out since his ascension to the  presidency in August 2013 – 20 executions during the week of his November “charm  offensive” at the United Nations – a fact largely ignored – while the recent  execution binge has witnessed over 250 executions carried out since the  beginning of 2014 alone.

According to the recent  report by Dr. Ahmed Shaheed – the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of  human rights in Iran – there are at least 895 “prisoners of conscience” and “political prisoners” incarcerated in Iran.

Among them, as described by  Dr. Shaheed, are political activists, religious practitioners, human rights  defenders, civic activists, student activists, journalists, and other leaders of  civil society.

Although Rouhani did free a number of political prisoners  in the run-up to his September appearance at the UN – including iconic human  rights lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh – the cosmetic freeing of individual prisoners  should not overshadow the ongoing painful reality of the criminalization of  innocence. Simply put, those that prosecute and persecute must be held to  account.

His work documents the horrific treatment that Iranian  prisoners endure, such as physical torture, including beating, whipping and  assault occurring in 100 percent of cases; sexual torture, including rape,  molestation, and violence to genitals, occurring in 60% of cases; and a high  prevalence of psychological and environmental torture, such as solitary  confinement.

One shocking example of the rampant violence perpetrated  against Iranian prisoners is the brutal raid by prison officials against Evin  Prison inmates on April 17, where dozens of security officials – reportedly  backed by the IRGC and Intelligence Ministry agents – used “extreme violence” during searches of cells in the notorious Ward 350, which houses political  prisoners, with over 30 detainees seriously injured.

Not only has Rouhani  remained silent about these crimes, but he has promoted the head of the Iran  Prisons Organization – Gholam Hossein Esmaili – to the position of director  general of the Justice Department in Tehran Province.

The Baha’i are routinely imprisoned for practicing their faith, and  this month marks the start of their seventh year of incarceration for the group  of seven Baha’i leaders, known as the Yaran. Their 20-year sentences amount to a  death sentence for some owing to their advanced age.

The Iranian  regime’s systematic persecution of the Baha’i has also resulted in widespread  religiously motivated hate crimes against them, with none of the attackers yet  prosecuted or brought to justice.

Even under Rouhani, Iran continues to imprison more  journalists than almost any other country.

More recently, the regime has shuttered five  newspapers, Bahr, Aseman, Ebtekar, Neshat and Ghanoon.

In addition, many  journalists report that the regime intimidates and harasses their families in an  effort to pressure them into discontinuing their work, recalling that last  June’s election was marked by the monitoring and censoring of Internet activity,  the blocking of access to opposition websites and e-mail accounts, and a roundup  of members of the press.

There is a complete absence of judicial  independence and rule of law in Iran. Indeed, the entire legal system is  designed to enable and enforce the regime’s massive repression of human rights,  and underpinning a culture of impunity for its violators.

In this regard,  it is outrageous that Rouhani’s appointee as justice minister is Mostafa  Pour-Mohammadi – a man implicated in a litany of major human rights violations,  including the 1988 massacre of 5,000 political prisoners.

Dr. Shaheed  estimates that some 40 lawyers have been detained since 2009. Any hope that  matters would improve under Rouhani has clearly been repudiated by the  appointment of Pour-Mohammadi as justice minister, as well as Elham Aminzadeh – a long-time apologist for Iran’s human rights record – as vice president for  legal affairs – both case studies of impunity.

The author is a Member of  the Canadian Parliament, emeritus professor of law (McGill University), and the  former minister of justice and attorney general of Canada. He is co-chair with  Senator Mark Kirk of the Inter-Parliamentary Group for Human Rights in Iran and  a member of the Advisory Board of United Against a Nuclear Iran.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
