
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK), Germany’s biggest bank, warned employees in an internal video that their behavior in conversations and e-mails is “falling way short” of its standards as the company faces regulatory scrutiny.

Colin Fan, co-head of the German lender’s investment bank, reminds employees that the bank’s reputation “is everything” in the video. “Being boastful, indiscreet and vulgar is not OK” and will have “serious consequences for your career,” he says, according to the Financial Times.

Deutsche Bank is among global banks under investigation by regulators around the world over claims they tried to rig the price of currencies and interbank lending rates. Fan’s video warning comes after co-Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen pledged to impose stricter sanctions on staff found to have breached codes of conduct.

“The substance and tone of this video is intentionally direct and part of an ongoing program,” Regina Schueller, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, said by e-mail. “We expect every employee to understand and comply with our standards.” She declined to confirm the exact contents.

Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission plans to strengthen banks’ internal review process for new products, according to a report to lawmakers obtained by Bloomberg News.

The FSC also plans to require bank boards to approve new, complex high-risk products. The regulator may strengthen rules on the sale and design of target redemption forwards, a type of derivative sometimes used for hedging.

Non-listed companies had unrealized losses from target redemption forwards of about NT$4 billion ($130 million) and losses from listed companies were about NT$1.9 billion, the Commercial Times reported May 13, citing FSC Minister Tseng Ming-chung.

The FSC also will set up an information platform on customer credit profiles.

Rafferty Capital Markets LLC agreed to pay $850,000 to settle U.S. claims it illegally facilitated trades for an unregistered brokerage.

Rafferty was the brokerage of record in name only for about 100 trades in asset-backed securities in 2009 and 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission said May 16 in a statement. Five people working from the other firm’s offices registered as brokers at Rafferty and used its systems as the outside firm retained sole authority over their decisions, the SEC said in an administrative proceeding.

The SEC didn’t identify the unregistered firm involved in the trades. That company portrayed itself in marketing materials as a brokerage, the agency said.

Rafferty didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing. It agreed to pay a $130,000 penalty and give up $637,615 in profit, plus interest, according to the SEC.

Susan Merrill, Rafferty’s attorney at Sidley Austin LLP, declined to comment on the accord.

Closely held Rafferty grew out of a company co-founded by Larry Rafferty in 1987.

Robert McDowell, a former Republican commissioner at the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, talked about net neutrality and the FCC’s May 15 vote to advance a proposal that would let Internet-service providers charge for fast lanes for Web content.

The agency is worried about distorting the market and “at the same time the FCC is putting out some ideas which could be harmful to a whole Internet ecosystem,” McDowell said.

For the video, click here.

Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Thank you for subscribing to our Daily Newsletter. You will receive a confirmation email shortly at .
