
VIENTIANE – Every year, the Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) awards its “Face of the Future” to an exceptional travel and tourism rising star who exhibits initiative and leadership in advancing tourism, and demonstrates commitment to the sustainable development of the Asia Pacific travel industry.

This year, PATA placed this crown on Lanith Core Faculty Member, Soulinnara “Nara” Ratanavong, at an awards presentation at the Association’s Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2014, in Zhuhai, China.

PATA CEO Martin Craigs, stated, “This year, the Face of the Future program attracted a great number of strong candidates,” however Ms. Ratanavong deserved the top recognition for her accomplishments.

The 28-year-old Ms. Ratanavong’s journey into tourism and Lanith started in secondary school. She recognized the potential of Lao tourism, the career opportunities, and its importance to the nation’s economy.

She received a Diploma in English at the Lao American College, and then entered the Academy of International Management, Paris, earning a Master of Science in Hospitality Management.

Meanwhile, word of Lanith’s initiative had reached Ms. Ratanavong in France, and she began communicating with its administration.

She returned to Laos, and worked at tourism businesses, but her eye remained on Lanith. “What I really wanted to do was teach tourism,” so she sent her CV to Lanith in hopes of landing a part-time teaching job.

Upon reviewing Ms. Ratanavong’s credentials, Lanith knew they had found a star. With the Core Faculty already in place, Lanith needed to create a position that matched Ms. Ratanavong’s abilities.

In mid-2013, Ms. Ratanavong spent some three months at Lanith’s Luang Prabang Satellite Training Centre before a two-month internship at Bangkok’s upper-end Rembrandt Hotel and Towers. Her responsibilities now cover duties ranging from teaching through intern placement.

Ms. Ratanavong’s first tasks are to introduce the Lanith system to Chinese students, and then travel to Germany to attend the world’s leading travel trade show, IMEX, on 20-22 May.

She concluded, “I believe that a proper attitude is the most important quality for someone seeking a career in tourism and hospitality. Anyone can train to do a job, but you need the right attitude to grow.
