
The judge in the case for the Staten Island Republican will not require Grimm to be present at pretrial hearings for his case. Grimm is facing charges of wire fraud, tax evasion, perjury and hiring of undocumented workers at his Manhattan health food restaurant.

Congressman Michael Grimm (center) will not be required to appear at pretrial hearings.

A judge said it was Grimm’s (center) ‘prerogative’ if he chose not to attend pretrial hearings.

Grimm (second from right) made his first appearance at the courthouse could be his last for some time. Grimm is also up for reelection this fall.

Indicted Congressman Michael Grimm wants to stay away from Brooklyn Federal Court as much as much as he can.

The Staten Island Republican made his first appearance Monday before Federal Judge Pamela Chen since he was arrested last month, and all indications are that it will be the last she sees of him until after Election Day in the fall.

Grimm's lawyer, Elizabeth Kase, received permission from the judge to waive Grimm's future appearances in court.

“Obviously Mr. Grimm has other matters to attend to elsewhere and if he doesn't want to be here that's his prerogative,” Chen said.

Grimm's legal mouthpiece also told the judge that her client wants a pass on his requirement to report once a month to the pretrial services officer who makes sure that he is in compliance with the conditions of his $400,000 bail. The judge agreed that it probably wasn't necessary, but told the defense lawyer to discuss it with the pretrial services officer.

It is not common for a defendant to get a dispensation from pretrial, but a defense lawyer who is not involved in the case noted that there's no chance Grimm is going on the lam while he's running for reelection.

Jesse Ward for New York Daily News Grimm (R-Staten Island) is charged with wire fraud, tax evasion, perjury and hiring of undocumented workers at his Manhattan  restaurant.

Other politicians under federal indictment, including City Councilman Dan Halloran (D-Queens) and State Sen. Malcolm Smith (D-Queens) have been reporting to pretrial services in Brooklyn while their cases are pending in federal court in White Plains.

“If it's a question of him (Grimm) being in Washington, D.C., he could still report to pretrial services there,” the source said.

Grimm remained mum as he entered and left the courthouse and his lawyers refused to say why he was seeking special treatment. Federal prosecutors did not oppose Grimm's requests.

Meanwhile, Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Capozzolo said the government would begin turning over more than 7,000 documents and 8,000 emails connected to the charges of wire fraud, tax evasion, perjury and hiring of undocumented workers at Grimm's Manhattan health food restaurant.

Grimm is facing a tough reelection battle against Democratic challenger Domenic Recchia.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
