
MADISONVILLE, Ky. (5/19/14) — The Madisonville Police Department released the following reports Monday, May 19.

Scott Jimenez, 40, of Madisonville was charged May 19 for alcohol intoxication in a public place, menacing, disorderly conduct and resisting arrest. The arresting officer was Justin Browning.

Kenneth Hill, 55, of Madisonville was charged May 18 for receiving stolen property under $500, criminal trespassing, wanton endangerment and fleeing/evading the police (motor vehicle). The arresting officer was Van Killough.

Nicholas Schoelkopf, 22, of Madisonville was charged May 16 for drug paraphernalia buy or possess and endangering the welfare of a minor. The arresting officer was Jan McKnight.

Justin Marshall, 18, of Slaughters was charged May 19 for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs, possession of synthetic cannabinoids agonists or piperazines, drug paraphernalia buy or possess, and failure to produce insurance card. The arresting officer was Justin Jones.

Tamatha Davis, 43, of Nebo was charged May 19 for theft by unlawful taking. The arresting officer was Justin Jones.

Jeremy Wicks, 29, of Madisonville was charged May 16 for assault in the fourth degree (domestic violence) with minor injuries. The arresting officer was Van Killough.

Courtney Whitsell, 24, of Madisonville was charged May 17 for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs. The arresting officer was Justin Jones.

Tina Pena, 45, of Madisonville was charged May 18 for failure to or improper signal and operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs. The arresting officer was Justin Jones.

Labradford Campbell, 24, of Madisonville was charged May 18 for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs. The arresting officer was Justin Jones.

Sandra Vinyard, 59, of Evansville, Ind. was charged May 18 for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs. The arresting officer was Paul Haynie.

Lynn Mortellaro, 43, of Madisonville was charged May 18 for alcohol intoxication in a public place, possession of open alcoholic beverage container in a motor vehicle prohibited and criminal littering. The arresting officer was Russell Nichols.

Ernest Davis, 38, of Madisonville was charged May 17 for burglary. The arresting officer was Justin Browning.

Jonathan Gunby, 30, of Earlington was charged May 18 for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol, prescription controlled substance not in proper container, drug paraphernalia buy or possess and possession of controlled substance, unspecified. The arresting officer was Justin Browning.

Jason Gossett, 34, of Madisonville was charged May 16 for criminal trespassing. The arresting officer was Justin Jones.

Jessee Rickard, 24, of Madisonville was charged May 16 for theft by unlawful taking under $500. The arresting officer was Justin Browning.

Darrin Burt, 29, of Madisonville was charged May 16 for reckless driving. The arresting officer was Paul Haynie.

Steven Capps, 39, of Madisonville was charged May 16 for assault in the fourth degree (child abuse). The arresting officer was Paul Haynie.

© Copyright 2014 SurfKY News Group, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, or rewritten without permission. SurfKY News encourages you to share this story by using one of the social media links below.
