
You will be redirected to the page you want to view in  seconds.

Darrell Richardson doesn’t know how long his brother, Dennis, may have lived if he had received faster treatment from the Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care system.

But he’s sure that Dennis’ final months would have been more comfortable and more hopeful if the VA had been more helpful.

The decorated Navy Vietnam veteran died in November 2012 at age 65, three months after requesting an appointment at the Phoenix facilities and four months before the next available clinical opening. When his family finally took him to the emergency room after weeks of agonizing pain, doctors found it was too late to effectively treat him.

Darrell Richardson is among dozens of family members in Arizona — and now, across the country — wondering if lapses in VA scheduling for health care may have contributed to their loved ones’ deaths. But instead of answers, they’re caught in the larger political fight of who to blame and how to fix the system.

Whistleblowers have alleged that top Phoenix officials altered medical appointment wait times in an effort to hide problems in the health care system, and that the resulting care delays may have contributed to the deaths of 40 veteran patients. Officials in seven other cities are suspected of similar system gaming.

While lawmakers and VA officials spar over the path ahead, family members who may have been affected have received little information about exactly what happened. A VA Inspector General report on the problem isn’t expected to be completed until August.

Many are starting to worry they’ll never know exactly what went wrong — or how to ensure other families don’t suffer the same fate.

Debra Allen’s husband, Mel, served proudly as an Army pilot in Vietnam with the 116th Assault Helicopter Company and worked successfully in commercial construction before he fell ill in 2010. After seeing several civilian physicians for his malaise, he went to a VA medical center in northern Arizona in 2011, where he was diagnosed with bladder cancer.

He was told he needed surgery. But after moving into the Phoenix VA Health System, he was left waiting seven months for a referral.

By then it was too late; the cancer had spread throughout his pelvis and lymph nodes.

He died March 14 at age 64. Debra Allen believes that a paper system, lost consults and an alleged off-the-books waiting list contributed to his death.

“My husband, 39 others and maybe more lost their lives because people wanted to protect their jobs and earn their bonuses? It’s adding insult to injury. No, it’s adding insult to death,” Allen said.

On May 13, officials with the American Legion held a town hall meeting with families in Phoenix to hear their concerns about the ongoing investigation. Dozens of veterans and loved ones packed into the group’s downtown headquarters to vent their frustrations and urge a quicker response from VA leaders.

Among them was Debbie Valle, whose husband, Cecil, died April 4 from prostate cancer complications.

She told the crowd that Phoenix VA officials diagnosed the illness in 2010, but lengthy waits between appointments and a misdiagnosis of arthritis allowed the cancer to spread throughout her husband’s body. By the time they caught the problems early this year, the only option left was hospice care.

That mirrors the problems faced by Richardson’s brother, who trusted that VA officials wouldn’t delay medical appointments if his condition was quickly deteriorating. Physicians in Wisconsin had warned that aggressive treatment was necessary, but his brother was still given a seven-month wait for an appointment after he moved to Arizona.

He and his brother’s family have been reliving the anguish of his death since the Phoenix problems have become national news.

VA and White House officials have promised reform and punishment once the inspector general’s investigation is complete, and said they are working to reassure veterans that the department’s health care systems are working to restore patients’ trust.

So far, the VA IG has offered no details to families who may have been affected by care delays.

On May 15, in testimony before the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, IG officials said work so far has not uncovered any direct links between care delays and patient deaths. But they are expected to comb through thousands of files in coming weeks to look for additional problems.

Lawmakers have said the allegations of mismanagement and deceptive record keeping are enough to force major reforms throughout the department. Allen said she thinks leaders at the Phoenix facility need to go, and VA Secretary Eric Shinseki with them if he knew anything about the problems.

“Even if he didn’t know, he needs to keep his eye on the ball a lot better than he did in the past,” she said.

Richardson isn’t sure what should happen next. He just knows he’s frustrated and exhausted.

Start your day with a roundup of top defense news.

Sign up now for free Military Times E-Reports. Choose from Money and Education. Subscribers: log in for premium e-newsletters.

Darrell Richardson doesn't know how long his brother, Dennis, may have lived if he had received faster treatment from the Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care system.

A link to this page will be included in your message.

Subscribe for Print or Digital delivery today!

Copyright © 2014 www.militarytimes.com. All rights reserved.
