
CAMP MIKE SPANN, Afghanistan -- First Lt. Josh Pitcher has nothing to prove.

He is loved by his men. Treated as a warrior by Afghan troops. And well respected by his superiors.

But Pitcher, 25, won't let up.

In the gym, he works harder. On patrol or in training, he pushes everyone to keep up with him.

"He's a stud," his fellow paratroopers say.

Pitcher lost a leg in Afghanistan in 2012. He has replaced it with a chip on his shoulder.

On April 15, 2012, Pitcher was leading a patrol in Zharay province when he stepped on a pressure plate and an improvised explosive device took off his left leg.

What followed included 13 months of intensive therapy and physical training. But through it all, Pitcher always knew that he would return to the 82nd Airborne Division.

"I had no doubt," he said. "Not at all."

When doctors dared to question his goal, it only pushed him more.

"People were telling me I couldn't do this," he said, referring to doctors at Walter Reed Medical Center.

He refused to leave the infantry and now, two years after he was wounded, he says he is better and stronger than he ever was on two legs.

Before deploying, Pitcher earned the coveted Expert Infantry Badge. He also proved to his superiors that he was ready to lead troops in combat -- something he called "one of the greatest victories" of his life.

When speaking of his return to service -- and Afghanistan -- Pitcher uses words like vendetta and revenge.

But it was a different motivation coursing through him when he learned that he would deploy with B Company, 2nd Battalion, 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment.

"I was initially terrified of going back," Pitcher admits.

Later, he cherished the opportunity for revenge. Then he learned the paratroopers would no longer be asked to be on the front lines of the fight in Afghanistan.

That role now belongs to the Afghan National Security Forces. Pitcher and his men instead serve as guardian angels for military and civilian officials.

"It's a lot different than what we're accustomed to," he said. "We're not here to kill bad guys anymore."

In Afghanistan, Pitcher does not hide his prosthetic leg. He runs in shorts and has been known to pull pranks on medics by removing his prosthetic.

He is a fan favorite among the Afghan soldiers, said Capt. Bryan Blackburn, Pitcher's company commander.

"To them, he's a real warrior," Blackburn said.

But the attention is sometimes frustrating.

"Sometimes I wish there was a lot more amputees in the military," Pitcher said. "You really just want to keep to yourself."

Blackburn said he sees Pitcher struggle with the attention.

"He's slowly embracing the fact that he's an ambassador for wounded warriors," Blackburn said. "Most of them don't get back here."

As for the chip, Blackburn said he hopes the young lieutenant eventually realizes what he has been able to accomplish.

"He doesn't have anything left to prove," Blackburn said. "He can do everything we do. He's a warrior, and everybody knows it."

© Copyright 2014 Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
