
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Preet Bharara, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, discusses arrests in the malware Blackshades Remote Access Tool, during a news conference in New York on Monday, May 19, 2014.

NEW YORK — Federal prosecutors on  Monday announced charges against alleged computer hackers linked to an international group called Blackshades that trafficked in malicious software enabling attackers to gain secret control of more than half a million computers worldwide.

Five individuals were accused in court charging documents released by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York City.

An affidavit by FBI Special Agent Samad Shahrani filed with the charges alleged that Blackshades has been in operation since at least 2010 and "distributed malicious software to thousands of cybercriminals throughout the world."

The alleged group's program of choice was the Blackshades Remote Access Tool — or RAT — which Shahrani's affidavit described as a "sophisticated piece of malware that enabled cybercriminals to remotely and surreptitiously gain control of a victim's computer."

After installing the RAT on an unsuspecting victim's computer, an attacker could "access and view documents, photographs and other files ... record all of the keystrokes entered ... steal the passwords to the victim's online accounts and even activate the victim's Web camera to spy on the victim," Shahrani wrote.

The investigation showed that the RAT has been purchased by at least several thousand users in more than 100 countries, the FBI affidavit alleged. Officials said they had recently arrested more than 90 people in 19 countries suspected of using or distributing the malicious software.

Ransom notes were used to force victims to pay hackers to release their computers, authorities said. One such note read: "Your computer has basically been hijacked, and your private files stored on your computer has now been encrypted, which means that they are impossible to access, and can only be decrypted/restored by us."

Bharara described the technology as "inexpensive and simple to use" but called its invasiveness "breathtaking."

"As today's case makes clear, we now live in a world where, for just $40, a cybercriminal halfway across the globe can — with just a click of a mouse — unleash a RAT that can spread a computer plague not only on someone's property, but also on their privacy and most personal spaces," said Bharara.

Officials held a press conference Monday afternoon to explain the ongoing investigation.

Authorities are trying to track down anyone who may have purchased the software, Bharara said. He added that international cooperation is key to catching the cybercriminals.

"You can't just hide in another country anymore," Bharara said. "We will get as many people as we can."

Leo Taddeo, the special agent in charge of the Cyber and Special Operations Division for the FBI's New York office, also spoke to reporters.

"The charges unsealed today should put cybercriminals around the world on notice," Taddeo said. "If you think you can hide behind your computer screen — think again. Just like in the physical world, the FBI will follow the digital trail to your doorstep."

• Alex Yucel, identified by prosecutors as the co-creator of RAT. He was indicted on charges of conspiracy to commit computer hacking, distribution of malicious software and conspiracy to commit access device fraud. Yucel, 24, was arrested in Moldova in November 2013 and is pending extradition to the U.S.

• Brendan Johnston, who allegedly was paid by Blackshades to help market and sell malware, as well as provide technical assistance to users. He  was charged in a federal complaint with conspiracy to commit computer hacking and transmission of malware. Johnston, 23, was arrested Sunday in Thousand Oaks, Calif., and was expected to be arraigned in California federal court on Monday.

• Kyle Fedorek, identified by prosecutors as a RAT purchaser who used the program to steal online account information from hundreds of victims. He was charged in a federal complaint with conspiracy to commit computer hacking, access device fraud and computer hacking. Fedorek, 26, was arrested at his home in Stony Point, N.Y., Monday and appeared in Manhattan federal court.

• Marlen Rappa, who allegedly bought the RAT program and used it to spy on dozens of victims and steal online account information. Rappa was charged in a federal complaint with conspiracy to commit computer hacking and computer hacking. Rappa, 41, was arrested at home in Middletown Township, N.J., Monday and appeared in Manhattan federal court.

• Michael Hogue, identified by prosecutors as the co-creator of RAT. He was charged in a federal information with conspiracy to commit computer hacking and distribution of malware. Court filings show Hogue, 23, a student at the University of Arizona, was arrested in Arizona last June and pleaded guilty in January.
