
Steven Grossman is one of five Democrats running to succeed Governor Deval Patrick.

Treasurer and gubernatorial candidate Steven Grossman today offered a sharp critique of the way Massachusetts has implemented President Obama’s health care law as well as the state’s dysfunctional online health insurance marketplace.

Since the the state’s online health insurance marketplace was revamped last year to  comply with the federal health care overhaul, it has not worked properly and left thousands of consumers frustrated and many without coverage for months.

The state announced earlier this month it planned to scrap the dysfunctional website and use a program used by other states to enroll residents in health insurance plans. Massachusetts said it was also preparing to temporarily join the federal marketplace in case the replacement system is not ready by Nov. 15, when most residents are set to begin being able to sign up for 2015 health insurance plans through the Massachusetts Health Connector.

Grossman was also critical of the state for not having an open bidding process to determine what company would get the contract to craft the replacement system.

The state is using emergency procurement rules to buy a replacement program from a company called hCentive that is used by some other states for their health care exchanges. That is being done through a contract with Optum, a company the state hired earlier this year to try to fix the balky website. There was no competitive bidding that would have allowed other companies to vie for the contract.

“I would have gone the procurement route. I don’t think no-bid contracts are a good thing,” he said.

Speaking to a reporter after the event, Grossman said an open procurement process gives taxpayers the sense that their money is being properly spent.

“It would reassure the public that when you’re spending tens or hundreds of millions of dollars from taxpayer dollars that it’s being done in a way that passes muster,” he said.

Bill Oates, the state’s chief information officer, defended the process, given the time constraints.

At the forum, in response to a follow-up question, Grossman said he did not support Massachusetts asking for a full waiver from the Affordable Care Act, something Republican gubernatorial candidate Charlie Baker has repeatedly done.

The session was held at University of Massachusetts Club in downtown Boston and was sponsored by the public relations firm Denterlein, Associated Industries of Massachusetts, and NAIOP Massachusetts, the commercial real estate development association.

Grossman is one of five Democrats running to succeed Governor Deval Patrick. Baker, another Republican, a Libertarian, and three independent candidates are also running.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
