
COLUMBUS, Ohio (May 19, 2014) — ASA-Ohio, the state affiliate of the Automotive Service Association (ASA), and Rad Air Complete Car Care & Tire Center President Andy Fiffick testified recently before the Ohio Senate on the benefits to SB232, a bill requiring automotive repair shops to become licensed in the state.

Mr. Fiffick, whose dealership operates and franchises 11 locations in northeast Ohio, said he believes the bill is vital to protecting the industry and the clients they serve.

“SB232 is really a consumer protection measure,” Mr. Fiffick said. “A couple of decades ago, cars required a lot more maintenance, which meant plenty of work in the industry. New technology has changed that.

Extending the jurisdiction of the state Motor Vehicle Repair Board to anyone who performs mechanical repairs on motor vehicles;

Requiring motor vehicle repair facilities to register with the board;

Creating the Motor Vehicle Repair Operator Vendor’s License Suspension Fund;

Dissolving the existing Motor Vehicle Repair Board and replacing it with a new board of the same name.

To register, a facility would have to pay a $150 registration fee for each location; provide proof of general liability insurance and insurance to cover damage to motor vehicles in the applicant’s care; and provide proof of coverage under Ohio’s Workers’ Compensation Law and Ohio’s Unemployment Compensation Law.

“We don’t see SB232 as a way to increase the regulation of our industry as much as we see it as a way to protect legitimate businesses and our clients. At the end of the day, we want every Rad Air customer to have their repair done correctly at a fair price and we want them to be satisfied with their service. SB232 will further that goal,” Mr. Fiffick said.

“Just like other industries have done for years, now legitimate mechanical repair businesses are pushing to have their profession registered with a professional board,” ASA-Ohio said.

“Mechanical repair shops are currently operating under radical pricing differences compared to ‘backyard’ operators who do not pay taxes, workers’ comp premiums or unemployment premiums. These shops operate under the radar and avoid compliance with Ohio’s environmental standards, OSHA laws, and other requirements associated with conducting a legitimate repair business in this state.

If the bill is approved, Ohio would join Florida as the only states requiring independent repair shops to undergo registration, according to the ASA-Ohio , which is encouraging its members to write to their state representatives to support the bill.

DETROIT — Ever since it went public with its self-driving car in 2010, Google Inc. has often been the one snapping up outside talent to bring autonomous cars closer to reality.

Mark Bonner, sales director for Premier Lube & Equipment Repair, discusses their headlight restoration kit.

ORLANDO, Fla. (Aug. 20, 2014) — Aaron Murphy, vice president, China Manufacturers Alliance L.L.C.

PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla. — TBC Corp. is adding three lines to its Dynacargo medium radial truck tire offerings.

If you're already a subscriber, you can read the latest and past issues right on your desktop or tablet.
