
Warmth and sunny skies will hold in Minneapolis through late week before some showers roll into the city for Memorial Day weekend.

The week will end on a warm note with temperatures Friday reaching the upper 70s with sunshine.

Temperatures will increase heading into the holiday weekend with Saturday, Sunday and Monday all expected to come within a few degrees of the 80-degree mark.

Showers and thunderstorms will plague the Minneapolis area through the remainder of the holiday weekend.

Heading into next week, temperatures will dip back into the 70s by midweek.

Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines . Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.

Hauling lobster traps was off to a slow start for a 14-year-old girl and her father, but within minutes, the two would make a rare and exciting catch — a vibrant, sapphire-blue lobster.

Don't pack away the shorts and bathing suits yet, as some late-summer warmth is on the way in the Northeast.

Flooding has turned deadly across southern South Korea where some locations received over 250 mm (10 in) of rain.

An arm of hot and humid air from the South will extend across the Ohio Valley, as cool air slices across the Upper Midwest into midweek.

The Bardarbunga volcano could be counting down toward impacting on millions of air travelers.

A rapidly growing wildfire in northern California is threatening hundreds of residences near the town of Weaverville.

A railroad train on a Cincinnati to Chicago run lost a right of way meeting with a tornado. Accident occurred in Dearborn Co., SE IN, 15 miles from Laurenceburg at 5:45 PM. Train lifted off track - over 30 persons injured.

Krakatoa volcano exploded - spectacular red sunsets over U.S. in November and December of that year.

Hurricane sends 155-mph winds against levees but the disaster of 1928, when the levees broke, was not repeated.

AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
