
A veteran studies the monument that has been erected for the USS Scorpion SS-278, a submarine that went missing in the Pacific theater during World War II. A memorial service was held Saturday at the monument, which is located just west of Meridian Bridge in Yankton. The service on Saturday, which was Armed Forces Day, rememberered the Scorpion, which went missing 70 years ago this year. Its fate remains unknown. There were 77 hands on board.

Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:28 pm | Updated: 11:12 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

Known as the “silent service,” submarine veterans from across the region came together Saturday to honor — and talk at length about — their fallen comrades.

Veterans like Jim Black of Yankton did not waste an opportunity to recognize a family that continues to dwindle in numbers as time passes.

“Of course, most of all the guys that I worked with to build this thing are gone now,” said Black, 90, who is one of three living World War II submarine veterans in South Dakota.

Another of the three living veterans is 92-year-old Bob Hanson of Yankton, who is battling an illness in a local nursing home. The other lives in the Rapid City area.

Black was among those in attendance Saturday for a 70th anniversary service for the United States Submarine Veterans Inc. (USSVI) and the U.S. Submarine Veterans of World War II. The anniversary commemorated the USS Scorpion SS-278, which was lost at sea in January 1944.

The service was held at the Scorpion memorial located west of Meridian Bridge in Yankton, and featured the local VFW Honor Guard, USSVI representatives from regional bases, as well as featured speaker Lt. Gov. Matt Michels.

The memorial was dedicated in 2002, but in the 12 years since, has taken on new life thanks to the efforts of the USSVI, Black said.

The nearly hour-long ceremony Saturday included a tolling of the bell for the 77 crew members of the Scorpion — which included Gregory’s Jack Clough, the only South Dakotan on the sub. Following some closing marks, the group proceeded to Meridian Bridge where flowers were dropped in the river.

It was all to honor not only the Scorpion, but everyone who perished on submarine crews during World War II, Black said.

The history of the Scorpion is, by now, rather well known, thanks to the USSVI and the various Scorpion services held over the years in Yankton. En route to the East China and Yellow Seas on Jan. 5, 1944, for a fourth and final patrol, the Scorpion rendezvoused with the USS Herring to transfer an injured man. Heavy seas prevented a safe transfer, and the Scorpion was never seen or heard from again.

The only clue to the final location? “It was later discovered that enemy minefields had been strung across the entrance to the Yellow Sea,” the memorial states.

During his brief remarks, Michels related situations where, while walking across the Meridian Bridge, he sees young people stop and read the memorial.

Michels described the ways in which submarine veterans allowed Americans to live in a free society — he referenced current events in which people across the world are banished or punished for expressing views against a government.

“It’s here because people gave their lives,” Michels said of the Scorpion memorial. “This is a memory to them and their families, so we can visit them and honor them.

Also among the veterans in attendance Saturday was Mike Neuroth of Valley Springs. Nicknamed “Captain Neutron,” he was responsible for the “Dive the Boat” and “Surface the Boat” portions of the ceremony — he carried a horn that blared to signify the beginning and end to the festivities.

“It’s a good idea to have a memorial close to the ground like that so people can come look at it and read the names,” Neuroth said during a post-ceremony lunch at the local VFW.

The San Diego native moved to South Dakota, where he graduated from Washington High School in 1960.

Asked about some of his strongest memories from his naval service, Neuroth said he was on the Perch during the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962. The troop transport sub was on its way to the Panama Canal, but was called back before reaching the location. Neuroth jokes that fellow veterans who sailed through the canal still give him grief.

“We certainly didn’t go anywhere that exciting,” Neuroth said.

He later made five patrols north of the Arctic Circle. Also on his resume are 10 trips across the Atlantic Ocean — eight by airplane and two by sub.

“And guess which ones I felt the safest on?,” he asked, with a smile, referring to submarines.

As time passes and many submarine veterans — particularly those who served in World War II — pass away, events like Saturday become especially important, Black said.

“I’m very lucky to be around yet. I realize that,” said Black, who turned 90 in January. “And I was one of the younger ones.

You can follow Jeremy Hoeck on Twitter at twitter.com/jhoeck . Discuss this story at www.yankton.net .

Posted in Community on Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:28 pm. Updated: 11:12 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
