
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

#1000days: Amir Hekmati supporters rally on social media and in Washington, D.C.

FLINT, MI -- For nearly 1,000 days, a Flint man and U.S. Marine has been locked in one of the world's most notorious prisons.

People are trying to spread the word, hoping the message brings him home.

A vigil was held on Monday, May 19, in Washington, D.C., to spread awareness about the upcoming 1,000th day of captivity for Amir Hekmati .

Family members said he was in Iran in the summer of 2011 to visit relatives. The Iranian government said otherwise. They said he was a CIA spy and sentenced him to death, locked him in one of the world's most notorious prisons.

He now faces a 10-year prison sentence, after the original death penalty was overturned.

Hekmati's sister and brother-in-law and Democratic Reps. Dan Kildee, D-Flint Township, and Jim McGovern of Massachusetts held the vigil near the White House Monday and pressed Iran to release him.

Last month, Hekmati's Iranian lawyer informed the family that Hekmati had been tried secretly and convicted of the less-serious offense of "cooperating with hostile governments." He now faces a sentence of up to 10 years in prison.

On social media, supporters used hashtags #freeamir and #1000days to show their concern.

"#1000days too long -- it's time for Amir Hekmati to come home to be with his family & ailing father," Kildee tweeted.

"Iran needs to #FreeAmir immediately so he can be reunited with his family in Michigan. #1000days," Sen. Debbie Stabenow tweeted.

From ‏@Bridget_PJM: "It'll be a beautiful Monday in 'DC, and hope all Washingtonians will come to the WH for @FreeAmirHekmati #1000Days"

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
