
The PML-N government nears the completion of its one year in power amidst a lingering perception of lack of understanding with the army. This is by no means unnatural at a time when a second popularly elected government is trying to retrieve its turf in matters related to policy making. The army has to realise that respect for the military establishment would increase manifold if it is seen to be increasingly concentrating on its professional duties instead of devising national policies or pursuing agendas not corroborated by Parliament. The government on its part has to proceed towards the goal of civilian empowerment with a sense of responsibility and without any display of infantile behaviour. That this has failed to happen at times has led to accusations that the PML-N is once again on way to confrontation with the institutions. Complaints of unfair criticism on the part of responsible members of government led the COAS to openly affirm that army “will resolutely preserve its own dignity and institutional pride”. Within weeks of the statement the army had other grievances leading to expressions of displeasure on its part, the cold shouldering of defence minister at Kakul passing out parade being one example.

The smaller opposition groups are trying to utilise the situation for their benefit. Some like AMLP and PML-Q are posing as unofficial spokespersons of the army. Others like Jamaat-e-Islami are making noises that can cause further complications. With four MNAs in a House comprising 342 members, Sirajul Haq has declared that his party will not accept any system other than sharia. He has also rejected the constitutional provision regarding the appointment of chief election commissioner, demanding that the CEC should be appointed through the consensus of all parliamentary parties, irrespective of their size. Meanwhile, PTI’s resort to public agitation over an issue that can only be settled in the Parliament has further confused the situation.

There is a need on the part of the army and the government to realise that the country can ill afford uncertainties amidst internal threats to security and the changing regional scenario. On Monday, Mullah Fazlullah declared that like the TTP, Pakistan government, armed forces and intelligence agencies would also have to accept the writ of Allah Almighty. Like Sirajul Haq Fazlullah also reiterated that the enforcement of sharia was the mission of his life. On Monday, the COAS was in Kabul which has provided shelter to extremists like Fazlullah and Khaled Omar Khorasani while it continues to complain against Pakistan. On its eastern border Pakistan has to cope with a resurgent BJP and a newly elected hardliner as prime minister. What is needed under the circumstances is for the government, parliament and army to be really on the same page.
