
Robert Copeland, 82, is the police commissioner in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire - where Romney owns a home and spends a lot of time.

On Thursday evening Copeland refused to apologize at a town meeting for using the term.

The Boston Herald first reported Romney's statement.

It is a very embarassing time to be a Republican.  Mitt did show class in this case.

I think you're "little 18 year old" is pulling your leg... since you have to be 18 to be selected, I'm pretty sure it's damn near impossible to be selected for jury dudt twice in less than a year.

OMG! Sticks and stones, people!

It is just a word. Unless of course you feel it identifies you. For me, no word, color, etc identifies me. My character and integrity is what identifies me so call me every name in the book. It just shows the name caller is the dope.

If you referred to your boss at work by a racially tinged, derogatory name, then you'd probably be fired for it.  How is what this sheriff did any different?  The POTUS is ultimately his boss of bosses.

The guy is never going to apologize. It's obvious he despises non-whites. He just needs to be fired and then everyone can move on.

He's not a bad guy.  And, really, he's a competent leader.  He's the kind of guy I wouldn't have minded running things if he weren't simply wrong about some important philosophical realities as regards the importance and role of the government.

Why does anyone care what Romney has to say?  And could we please stop collectively being shocked and outraged when an old white guy is racist?  Old people are racist - that's just the way it is!

Romney is such a phony.  Had this happened during the time he was running, he would have invited that old fart on stage to converse with an empty chair.

Bo T.

Why is he even working at his age? Especially as a police commisisoner. He's gonna die soon anyway... fire him!

Those who point out that this is an issue of mere words, or some sort of issue of unrestrained speech, miss Romney's greater point: that every time the GOP takes a step toward distancing themselves from their reputation of a "angry-whites only club," some guy like this or that Bundy guy shows up. Romney is trying to see to it the Republican Party doesn't evaporate as our culture changes, so far from a "thought control" issue, Romney's being very pragamatic.

Which made him about 100 times more qualified than Obama.

For all of you who are defending this racist by touting "free speech," this has noting to do with freedom of speech.  Here we have a police commissioner (government worker) elected by "the people" making vile racist remarks about the President of the United States.  As a police commissioner, he's supposed to be held at a higher standard and should be terminated for conduct unbecoming  as an elected official as soon as he uttered such nasty words.  Anyone else making these remarks on a government salary would have been fired immediately.

This is what happens when you late an 80+ year old do anything in public without supervision and in an official capacity.

@Dean, re: "Which made him about 100 times more qualified than Obama."

Disagree.  But you're welcome to your opinion, of course.

Obama would NEVER do the same for Mitt Romney. Way to go, Mitt!

I think it's silly to demand apologies from anyone. Why? So you can get a fake "I'm sorry" that they don't mean? In America we have the freedom to be morons. Retire him so he can pursue his rights.
