
A London imam has been found guilty of aiding the terrorists who took 16 British and U.S. tourists hostage in Yemen 16 years ago.

NEW YORK, May 19 (UPI) -- The imam of a London mosque faces life in a U.S. prison after being convicted Monday in New York on federal terrorism charges.

Mustafa Kamel Mustafa , who is also known as Abu Hamza al-Masri , was convicted of aiding a group that took 16 U.S. and British tourists hostage in Yemen in 1998 and of recruiting young men for terrorist training camps. He is scheduled to be sentenced in September.

Four people were killed in the 1998 attack in Yemen and others seriously injured. Mustafa was indicted in New York in 2004 but proceedings were delayed by a lengthy legal fight over his extradition from Britain and by his conviction and seven-year sentence on hate speech charges.

Mustafa, 56, the son of an Egyptian army officer, originally came to Britain as a student and embraced life there. But he later turned to a radical form of Islam and became known as a fiery preacher at a mosque in London's Finsbury Park neighborhood.

Mustafa lost an eye and both hands, injuries he said were caused by a bomb while he was fighting the Soviet Army in Afghanistan , although his version is disputed.

that Assistant U.S. Attorney Ian Patrick McGinley called "a confession to the crime."

Another witness, Margaret Thompson, was shot in the leg. A rod had to be inserted into her leg because the bullet shattered her femur.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
