
A video has emerged online in which the owner of an international company that bought one of Zambia’s mines just under a decade ago mocks the government for selling the asset for a song.

The video , posted by international campaign group  Foil Vedanta , has gotten under the skin of many Zambians, so much so that some are now calling for the repossession of Konkola Copper Mines (KCM). The mine was sold to Vedanta Resources, a Switzerland-based multinational corporation, for 25 million US dollars. Owner Anil Agarawal claims to make profits of over 500 million US dollars annually.

Why are we different? Different because we take chances. I told you we have to take a chance. Then we said “We will give you 25 million in cash and 375 million we will have to invest to make the machines run.” We forgot the matter, and suddenly in about a month or so, we received calls. They invited us. We called up and inquired. They confirmed: “This company is yours” “Really?” I took one of our engineers and went to Johannesburg and caught a connecting flight there to Lusaka.

And they came, what a parliament house! First time I saw, I had held a bead necklace [in the name of God RAM] and kept chanting, moving ahead. With my smiling face. When I sat there with my man, the president came and sat by our side. He told the entire Parliament what great people we are and our empire is and that “they [Konkola Copper Mines] will make our lives gorgeous. And they will make schools, make hospitals and blah blah…” We just kept watching, chanting God's name there. All that you make is what we make! Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha.

We took over the company. It's been nine years, and since then every year it is giving us a minimum of 500 million dollars plus 1 billion every year. It has been continuously giving back.

Foil Vedanta protesters outside the Zambian High Commission in London last April. Picture courtesy of Crossfire Blogradio. Used with permission.

The Government of Zambia must make KCM’s accounts and annual reports public. The Zambian people and the international community demand to know the volume of copper leaving KCM’s plants.

As a Zambian, i have decided to take a stand on the issue of KCM. I am now believing that His Honor the Vice President, Dr Guy Scot has always been right about Vedanta and its partners. They are here to dupe the Zambian people of their resources. I have engaged the office of Mr. Navin Agarwal in UK to get clarification on his remarks concerning KCM. I am of the view that Mr. Agarwal insulted the intelligence of our leaders and subsequently the Zambian people, therefore, the Zambian government must take action. Join the pressure Group Re-Nationalize KCM…! ..If you want to get your own clarifications on the video, send me a message requesting contact to Mr. Agarwal's office in London.

It is disheartening that the KCM boss could talk about buying a national asset for a song with such impunity…. For us at ActionAid, this video confirms what we have always said about the privatization of some of these assets. This goes to mean that there was something fishy about the whole process.

Ba [Mr] Nshindano, this is a straight forward issue. This company should be asked to go. Problem in the country called Zambia is that everyone is a political analyst. I want to say this, for as long as Zambians with money are not encouraged or supported to be genuine partners in the mining sector we should forget about genuinely benefiting from it. Zimbabwe, South Africa, Angola, DRC and Botswana have encouraged and supported their citizens from private sector to be genuine investors in the mining sector. We view mine participation from a labourer perspective instead of looking at the $500m profit that the mine has been giving the guy and what that money would do to the 13 million plus Zambians.

The country’s Vice President, Guy Scott, told parliament  last February that KCM owners allegedly did not mind the company being declared bankrupt or placed under receivership in order for its liabilities to be taken over by government and disclosed that it appeared the company externalized huge amounts of money.

He also revealed that the mining company has liabilities in excess of $1.5 billion, it has not paid its creditors and repaid bank loans and that it owes other mining companies monies for the processed copper concentrates.

He pointed out that government has also discovered that there are two companies known by the same name Vedanta, with the one owning KCM not being bound by the regulations of disclosure of the London Stock Exchange and the Financial Services Authority in Britain.

Gershom Ndhlovo was once Deputy Editor for Sunday Mail, a weekly publication of the Zambia Daily Mail. (Read on!) He fell out with the government after opposing a third term attempt of former president Frederick Chiluba. His case is catalogued in the Zambia Human Rights Report 2001 and MISA's So This Is Democracy: The State of the Media in Southern Africa 2001. Today he is a blogger and journalist based in the UK. He has written for BBC Focus on Africa magazine, Inter-Africa Press Service, Africa South and East and a number of Zambian-based publications.
