
Four were killed at a Taiwanese steel mill in Vietnam during anti-China protests that erupted last week following China's recent deployment of an oil drilling platform near the disputed Paracel Islands in the South China Sea, the company said on Monday.

The United Evening News quoted Lin Hsin-yi, chairman of the steel mill operating as a subsidiary of the Formosa Plastics Group, as saying in Taipei they lost four people during the riots.

He was quoted as saying that two of them were Chinese, adding that one of them died of heatstroke and the other was beaten to death. The other two bodies were so badly burned it was difficult to identify, he said.

An assistant manager of the steel mill in Vietnam, who preferred to be identified only as Mr. Tsai, told Kyodo News by telephone there were four deaths and the two unidentified bodies are likely to be Chinese because they were found in the dormitories for Chinese workers.

Tens of thousands of Vietnamese took to the streets of Hanoi and other cities to protest Beijing's deployment of an oil drilling platform near the China-controlled Paracel Islands that are claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan.

While the protests target Chinese, some Taiwanese businesses have been mistakenly attacked by rioters.

Vietnam's de facto ambassador to Taiwan has apologized on behalf of his government and promised his government will mete out "the most severe punishment" according to the law.

Emphasizing the Vietnamese government attaches great importance to Taiwanese and foreign investors, the Vietnamese envoy said his government is assessing losses Taiwanese businesses incurred during the riots and considering means of compensation, including tax cuts or loans at preferential rates.

Taiwan is Vietnam's fourth-largest foreign investor.

As of March this year, Taiwan's accumulated investment in Vietnam totaled $27.3 billion, trailing behind Japan, South Korea and Singapore, according to official statistics.

There are about 40,000 Taiwanese businesspeople and their families in Vietnam.

The Ministry of Economic Affairs said Monday that as of Sunday, more than 200 Taiwanese businesses have incurred losses during the riots but detailed statistics are not yet available.

Responding to a legislator's request to freeze Vietnamese workers, Minister of Labor Pan Shih-wei said Monday it is possible to impose a moratorium on new hires of Vietnamese workers, depending on negotiations with Hanoi.

Taiwan is Vietnam's No. 1 export country for laborers.

Taiwan has about 500,000 foreign workers, including 210,000 from Indonesia, 130,000 from Vietnam and 90,000 from the Philippines.

Copyright 2014 Kyodo News International.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
