
Cops in armored vehicle asked by residents "Are you coming to take our guns away?"

In an interview with Fox 59, a Morgan County, Indiana Police Sergeant admits that the increasing militarization of domestic police departments is partly to deal with returning veterans who are now seen as a homegrown terror threat.

In a chilling story entitled  Armed for War: Pentagon surplus gives local police an edge , we learn how a Mine Resistant Vehicle (MRAP) which was once used during the occupation of Afghanistan will now be “patrolling the streets of central Indiana,” according to the report.

Downing goes on to relate how citizens approach the vehicle when it stops at gas stations to express their concerns that the militarization of police is about arming cops with the tools required for mass gun confiscation programs.

Indiana seems to be a major trial balloon for the militarization of law enforcement given that the Indiana National Guard has also  just purchased two military UH-72 Lakota helicopters  which will also be used by local police and the DHS for “homeland security missions”. Downing’s claim that armored tanks are necessary to deal with violent crime doesn’t jive with actual statistics which suggest that  violent crime is in fact on the decrease .

Downing’s admission that the armored vehicles are partly about combating the threat posed by returning veterans correlates with similar rhetoric at the federal level.

An April 2009  DHS intelligence assessment  listed returning vets as likely domestic terrorists. Just a month later, the  New York Times reported on how Boy Scout Explorers were being trained by the DHS to kill “disgruntled Iraq war veterans” in terrorist drills.

The FBI has also repeatedly  characterized returning veterans  from Iraq and Afghanistan as a major domestic terrorist threat.

It seems to have been completely forgotten by police departments, the media and Americans in general that having military-style tanks patrol the streets is symbolic of a collapsing banana republic or an authoritarian Communist state.

Perhaps the main reason why police officers are being trained that veterans are a major threat is because returning vets are in a perfect position to recognize that America is beginning to resemble an occupied country like Afghanistan.

Such warnings have come from people like  former Marine Corps Colonel Peter Martino , who was stationed in Fallujah and trained Iraqi soldiers. Martino went before a New Hampshire city council meeting last year to assert that the Department of Homeland Security is working with law enforcement to build a “domestic army,” because the federal government is afraid of its own citizens.

Indeed, the city’s Police Chief justified the necessity for the acquisition of an armored ‘Bearcat’ vehicle by  citing the “threat”  posed by libertarians, sovereign citizen adherents, and Occupy activists in the region.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of  Infowars.com  and  Prison Planet.com .

  Print this page.

Is Bitcoin a Conspiracy? See the rest on the Alex Jones YouTube channel .

James Foley: Tragic Death Or Staged Propaganda? See the rest on the Alex Jones YouTube channel .
