
Police will continue their search for clues at the home of a Maple Grove girl who disappeared 25 years ago for the next several days, officials said Monday afternoon.

Maple Grove police executed a search warrant Sunday morning at a home owned by the parents of the girl, Amy Sue Pagnac, who was 13 when she went missing in 1989 at a gas station in Osseo, Minnesota.

The search warrant is under seal, and police gave no details as to what exactly they’re looking for at the house.

Maple Grove Police Captain Keith Terlinden said late Monday afternoon the search would continue through Friday, or possibly longer than that, FOX 9 reports. He added that no digging has been done at the home at this point, contrary to some news reports.

A large tent has been erected in the driveway of the house on Hemlock Lane North, and dozens of investigators from the local police department, the Hennepin County Sheriff’s Department and the FBI are on the scene.

The owners of the property, Susan Pagnac and Marshall Midden, had to leave the home while the search is going on, and they are reportedly staying with friends.

Terlinden said there are “no identified suspects” in the case, and said the parents are not considered suspects, according to KARE 11 . He also said that he doesn’t know whether Amy Pagnac is alive or dead, according to KARE 11.

Amy Sue Pagnac was with her father on August 5, 1989, driving home from visiting family property in Isanti County, when they stopped at the gas station in Osseo.

The girl waited in the car while her father went inside to use the restroom. Midden told authorities that when he returned to the car, Pagnac was gone . Authorities said at the time that Pagnac may have had a seizure and become disoriented, since she had experienced them in the past.

Susan Pagnac said in an interview with KARE 11 that she welcomes the police attention to the case, and she has not given up hope that Amy will be found alive.

Last week, new developments in the search for another missing Minnesota teenager,  Jacob Wetterling , were revealed. Wetterling was 12 when he was abducted in October 1989 by a masked man as he was riding his bike near his home in St. Joseph, in central Minnesota. He has not been found and the case remains open.

The Stearns County sheriff said his department is taking another look at a number of other assault cases involving teenage boys that occurred in a nearby community several months before Wetterling’s disappearance.
