
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Hatch admitted the speeding ticket in a news release about 2 1/2 hours after being pulled over on Interstate 80 in Altoona.

Democrat Jack Hatch, who kicked off his campaign for Iowa governor by criticizing Republican Gov. Terry Branstad for a speeding incident, was cited for speeding himself Monday.

Hatch disclosed the speeding ticket in a news release about 21/2 hours after being pulled over on Interstate Highway 80 in Altoona, but didn't note what his actual speed was or that he was in a construction zone.

The state trooper apparently cut Hatch some slack: He was clocked at 68 miles per hour, 13 mph over the 55-mph limit, but ticketed for going 65, or 10 mph over. And because the road crews were working behind concrete barriers at the time, the trooper chose not to include the enhanced penalties meant to protect construction workers, state police Sgt. Scott Bright told The Des Moines Register.

In his news release Monday, Hatch said: "Accountability is important. I offer a stark contrast to the current governor when it comes to dodging responsibility and attempting to hide the truth from Iowans."

Speeding became a campaign issue in Iowa after Branstad made headlines last year when a Division of Criminal Investigation supervisor called in that he saw the governor's vehicle traveling at a "hard 90." The state trooper who was transporting Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds that April day last year on U.S. Highway 20 was clocked at 84 mph in a 65 mph zone. The trooper was later ticketed for speeding. Branstad and Reynolds have said they didn't know how fast they were moving.

Larry Hedlund, the agent who initially reported the incident, later filed an internal complaint alleging that troopers routinely speed while driving vehicles carrying Branstad. Hedlund was subsequently fired, but the Department of Public Safety has said the termination stemmed from insubordination and other misconduct not related to the speeding incident. Hedlund has filed a lawsuit contending he was fired for his actions as a whistle-blower.

Hatch, in his first TV ad of his governor's race, a 30-second called "Smokey and the Branstad" released in mid-August, skewered Branstad for the incident. And when the Register reported that Branstad's vehicle had been pulled over again , this time in late August, Hatch said: "There he goes again. Did he not learn anything from the public outcry over the summer? No one is above the law in this state."

On Monday, Hatch said in his news release that Iowa State Patrol officers "executed a routine traffic stop" on Interstate 80 near mile marker 143 in Altoona.

Hatch later confirmed to the Register that his 2011 Ford Escape Hybrid was clocked at 68 mph.

I-80 is undergoing repair work in that area. Campaign spokesman John Hedgecoth told the Register: "The officer did say he could've ticketed Jack for being in a work zone. There was no other discussion about that issue."

Hatch's fine was $114. If he had been ticketed for going 10 miles over the limit in a work zone, the fine would have been $262, the State Patrol spokesman said. The fine would have been $465 for driving 13 miles over in a work zone.

Bright said the trooper didn't use the work zone penalties on any of the drivers he stopped Monday because the workers were behind the concrete barriers.

"Law enforcement did everything right," Hatch said in the statement, "and I thank those officers throughout the state who put themselves at risk on our behalf every day to keep Iowans safe on our roadways. I have great respect for them and the work they do. I take responsibility, and offer no excuses. I will pay this ticket in full when I return to Des Moines Tuesday."

Hatch is the second prominent Democrat to get a speeding ticket recently. The Register reported Sunday that Democrat Staci Appel, who is running for the Des Moines-area seat in Congress, had been cited back in March.

The Register on Sunday reported that Iowa court records show that Appel, a Democrat from Ackworth who is running for the 3rd District congressional seat, was ticketed for speeding on March 17. Radar clocked her driving 83 mph in a 60 mph zone on four-lane U.S. Highway 65/69 in Warren County. She was driving a 2009 blue Ford F-150 pickup truck, and she was fined $215.25, including court costs, after pleading guilty.

The two leading candidates in the Iowa governor's race have been ticketed for speeding a combined six times since 2000, online court records show.
