
EXPAT VIEWS,

and we are interested in your experiences.

Share your funny, memorable, frustrating or great experiences of Finland with our readers. Please send a brief email to This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.

with a piece of information about yourself and what kind of experiences you would like to write about, and we will give you more information on how to proceed with your story.

Australia, a military ally of the United States in the Asia-Pacific, will increase defence spending under Prime Minister Tony Abbott after it fell to a seven-decade low, the government announced in its budget last week.

The Liberal-National coalition committed 122.7 billion dollars (83.9 billion euros) to military spending in the four years through June 2018, 9.6 billion dollars more than the amount earmarked by the previous Labor government, Defence Minister David Johnston said in a statement. The government will bring forward 1.5 billion dollars of spending to fund purchases, he said.

Abbott is seeking to build out the country's military capacity at a time of China's rising assertiveness in the region. He's committed to building new Collins-class submarines at facilities in South Australia state, buying 72 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters and lifting defence spending from its lowest level since 1938 as a share of gross domestic product.

The government will provide defence with a "stable and sustainable funding growth path," Johnston said in the statement.

Australia's annual defence budget of 25 billion dollars will more than double in 10 years if the government increases spending to its target of 2 per cent of GDP, according to a government- commissioned audit released this month.

Abbott's government will allocate as much as A90 million dollars over two years to the search for the missing Malaysian plane, Flight MH370, it said Tuesday. It will provide A467 million for military operations in Afghanistan, where Australia will provide about 400 personnel to train and assist the Afghan National Security Forces.

The government will set aside 1.4 billion dollars in the four years through June 2018 to pay for indexation changes to pension and death benefits programs for defence workers, it said.

Abbott has commissioned a policy paper to be released next year by a panel aiming to deliver an "affordable" structure for the defence force. He's seeking to balance Australia's interests between strategic ally the US — which has as many as 2,500 Marines based in the northern city of Darwin — and top trading partner China, which it criticised last year for creating an East China Sea air defence identification zone.

"The coalition will ensure Australia has the military capabilities to deter threats and to project force in our neighborhood," it said in a policy paper last September. "We will also ensure that Australia operates with our allies, particularly the United States, in the wider world when and where we judge that is in our national interest."

Territorial tensions have flared in the South China Sea in the past week, with China and Vietnam accusing each other of ramming the other country's boats near the disputed Paracel Islands, after China placed an oil rig in the area. The Philippines arrested 11 Chinese fishermen it said were in its waters.

Southeast Asian leaders meeting in Myanmar on 11 May called for all parties to show self-restraint and to work toward a code of conduct for the resource-rich area, through which some of the world's busiest shipping lanes run.

Australia last month committed to buying a total of 72 F- 35 Joint Strike Fighters, down from a 2009 plan to purchase about 100 of what has become the Pentagon's most-expensive weapons system. It's ordering 58 of the Lockheed Martin-made aircraft for 12.4 billion dollars, on top of the 14 it pledged to buy in 2009.

One of Abbott's core pledges during the September election campaign was to "stop the boats" — vessels filled with asylum seekers usually operated by Indonesian-based people smugglers. Australia, which now sends all asylum seekers arriving by boat to offshore detention centers in Papua New Guinea and Nauru, says its tougher policy has saved 2.5 billion dollars from the budget's forward estimates.

Closing six onshore detention centers will save 280 million dollars, Immigration Minister Scott Morrison said on 9 May. The nation's customs and immigration operations would be merged into a new body called Australian Border Force, he said.
