
Afghan president Hamid Karzai is optimistic about Kabul-Beijing future relation and said currently the Afghanistan-China relations are at the best period of time in the history.

Karzai is in Shanghai city of China to attend Conference on Interaction & Confidence Building in Asia (CICA), said his country is committed to strengthening.

In an interview with china national radio, president Karzai declares that the new afghan government will not only extend its social, economical and political relation with China but will boost the corporation after 2014.

Karzai is supposed to leave office by the end of next month after second round of election between two leading candidates.

Leaders of Afghanistan and China on Monday pledged further cooperation on security and economic development, particularly reconciliation and peace building efforts on Afghanistan.

“We have exchanged views on achieving peace and security in Afghanistan, we have conducted friendly and transparent discussions in these issues,“ president Hamid Karzai said.

In his meeting with chins country part, Karzai asked the Chine’s investors and big companies to invest in Afghanistan.

Chinese officials said their country was determined to keep up good relations with Afghanistan.

“Once more I want to underline our relation is vital for us and the success of Afghanistan is to boost relation with China,” Karzi said.

“China is a friend country to Afghanistan, they never did any act against our national interest, our people have a positive understanding of your nation, we are thank full to your support, we want to increase our relation with Beijing and also to extend our cooperation after 2014, we hope to boost our relation in economical, political, commercial, social and security sectors with china, Karzai stated.”Also including those discussions was bilateral cooperation between the two countries, on security and defense issues and certainly China had a positive attitude.” Karzai said.

Since 2010, China has increased its economic aid and investment in Afghanistan, notably with announcement by Metallurgical Corporation Of China(MCC) pledging $3.5 billion to develop Aynak Copper mines.

China has the potential to make important contributions to Afghan stability. State-owned Chinese corporations are uniquely risk-tolerant and can help pave the way for future investments. The Chinese companies also enjoy a more positive relationship with Afghans, making their investments less likely to be targeted for attack by insurgents. These investments can stimulate economic growth that aid money alone cannot.
