
C.R. “Dick” Unrath was inducted into the Agricultural Hall of Fame during a ceremony May 16 at the Mountain Horticulture Crops Research & Extension Center in Mills River.

Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 3:39 p.m.

MILLS RIVER — On May 16, WNC Communities held the 24nd annual Western North Carolina Agricultural Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony at the Mountain Horticulture Crops Research & Extension Center in Mills River. C.R. “Dick” Unrath, a pioneer in agriculture in Western North Carolina, was inducted at this year's luncheon.

This annual event recognizes stewards of the Western North Carolina agribusiness sector and honors the visionaries and leaders of the agriculture industry, WNC Communities said in a news release.

Over a 35-year span, Unrath served the apple industry across Western North Carolina, in surrounding states and across the world. As a pomologist in the Department of Horticultural Science at North Carolina State University, his efforts impacted apple growers in virtually every county in the Western region, the release says.

A native of Hartford, Mich., Unrath received his degrees, including his doctorate, at Michigan State University. He joined the faculty at NCSU in 1968 and worked at the Raleigh campus for 12 years before coming to the N.C. Mountain Horticulture Crops Research and Extension Center in Mills River.

Over the next decades until his retirement in 2003, Unrath conducted a highly successful research and extension program devoted to improving the profitability of the apple industry. He was instrumental in developing many agricultural systems that are still in place today, including the tree-row-volume concept, a scientific way to determine water and chemical usage per acre based on size and density of trees. He also introduced a system of high-density dwarf tree planting to North Carolina apple growers and demonstrated the economic benefits of this system compared to conventional plantings.

Unrath is also recognized as a leading national and international authority on the use of plant growth regulators for thinning and enhancing fruit quality. In addition to these innovations, he developed an evaporative cooling system for orchards to reduce fruit temperatures and increase fruit quality during the hot summer months. This cooling system is being used across the world in major apple production regions where high temperatures are an issue.

Unrath was a long-standing advisor to the N.C. Apple Growers Association, a member of the American Society of Horticulture Science, the International Dwarf Fruit Tree Association and the American Phytopathological Society. He has been recognized locally and internationally for his accomplishments as a researcher and supporter of the North Carolina apple industry.

His dedication to the advancement of the apple industry in Western North Carolina has earned him the respect and trust of growers who, to this day, use his methods and systems.

“There is not a commercial apple grower in North Carolina, most other states, and even other countries, who has not benefited from the work that Unrath has done over the years,” said Jim Saylor, president of the N.C. Apple Growers Association.

WNC Communities honors stellar leaders in agriculture with a plaque on the WNC Agricultural Hall of Fame Wall located in the Mountain Horticulture Crops Research & Extension Center in Mills River.
