
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Banco Popolare's  (Popolare) and its rated subsidiaries' Long-term Issuer Default Ratings (IDRs)  at 'BBB' with Negative Outlook. At the same time it has downgraded Popolare's VR  to 'bb+' from 'bbb-'.

A full list of rating actions is available at the end of this rating action  commentary.

Popolare's Long-term IDR is at its Support Rating Floor (SRF) and therefore  based on Fitch's expectation of support from the Italian authorities. The  affirmation of the SRF reflects Fitch's view that there is a high probability  that Popolare would receive support, in case of need, from the Italian  government given its systemic importance domestically.

The Negative Outlook reflects a likely downward revision of the SRF on weakening  state support as further progress is made globally in implementing the  legislative and practical aspects of enabling effective bank resolution  frameworks. A lower SRF would result in downgrades of the Long-term IDR and the  long-term senior debt ratings to the level of the bank's VR, unless mitigating  factors arise in the meantime. Mitigating factors could include an upgrade of  Popolare's VR to the level of the bank's current SRF, the existence of large  buffers of junior debt or corporate actions.

Popolare's ratings are sensitive to a weakening of Fitch's assumptions around  the ability or propensity of Italy to provide timely support to the bank.  Of these, the greatest sensitivity is to a weakening of support propensity in  respect of the national implementation of the provisions of the Bank Recovery  and Resolution Directive (BRRD).

In Banking Union countries, including Italy, the Single Supervisory Mechanism  will reduce national influence over supervision and licensing decisions in  favour of the European Central Bank (ECB). While still involving multiple  parties in resolution decisions, the Single Resolution Mechanism will also  result in a dilution of national influence over resolution decisions.

Overall, Fitch's base case is for  sufficient progress to be made for Popolare's  Support Rating to be downgraded to '5' and its SRF to be revised downwards to  'No Floor' within the next one to two years. The timing will be influenced by  Fitch's continuing analysis of progress made on bank resolution and could also  be influenced by idiosyncratic events.

The Italian state's ability to provide timely support to Popolare is dependent  on its creditworthiness, as reflected in its Long-term IDR of 'BBB+' with a  Stable Outlook. A downgrade of Italy's sovereign rating would reflect a weakened  ability of the state to provide support and therefore likely result in a  downward revision of Popolare's SRF.

The downgrade of Popolare's VR reflects the bank's weakened asset quality,  resulting in a high level of equity encumbered by unreserved impaired loans and  a high vulnerability to negative movement in asset prices. Furthermore, the  small loss reported in 1Q14 testifies to the still fragile earnings outlook.

These two elements, in Fitch's opinion, more than offset the positive impact of  the recent capital strengthening following its EUR1.5bn new share issue.

Credit deterioration experienced in 4Q13 led the bank to report an operating  loss of over EUR800m for FY13, including loan impairment charges of about  EUR1.9bn (EUR1bn of which were booked in 4Q13). Gross impaired loans reached  EUR17.8bn, equal to a high 19.6% of total gross loans at end-1Q14 (14.5% at  end-2012). Unreserved impaired loans at end-2013 accounted for a high 150% of  Fitch Core Capital (including the new EUR1.5bn capital). Coverage of gross  impaired loans remains fairly low at just above 30%. However, the low coverage  partly reflects the large proportion of loans backed by collateral and the  group's write-off practices.

Popolare's profitability remains structurally weak, which means that the bank is  not yet able to generate sufficient profits internally to compensate for further  losses that may arise from its large stock of unreserved impaired loans or  unexpected shocks. As a result, capital may be eroded by further losses unless  impaired loans are dealt with swiftly and effectively. Management plans to  address the bank's weak profitability under its recently announced strategic  plan for the coming years.

The bank completed a EUR1.5bn new share issue in April 2014. It is also  implementing measures to reduce the impact of deductions of non-controlling  interests, through its  merger with  two banks subsidiaries, Credito Bergamasco  and Banca Italease. The combination of these measures translates into a  pro-forma fully-phased Basel III CET1 ratio of 11.2% at end-1Q14, which is now  more in line with the estimated ratios of its direct peers.

The bank's VR would come under additional pressure if there is further prolonged  deterioration in asset quality, or a sharp fall in real estate values in Italy.  A sustained strengthening of operating performance or significant asset quality  improvements may result in an upgrade of the VR.

Subordinated debt and other hybrid capital issued by Popolare and its  subsidiaries are all notched down from Popolare's VR (as the bank's subsidiaries  are not assigned a VR), in accordance with Fitch's assessment of each  instrument's respective non-performance and relative loss severity risk  profiles, which vary considerably. Their ratings are primarily sensitive to a  change in the VRs, which drive the debt ratings.

The 'C' Long-term rating of Banca Italease's trust preferred securities reflects  their non-performance and Fitch's expectation that the securities are unlikely  to resume coupon payments in the near future.

The ratings of Popolare's subsidiaries, Credito Bergamasco, Banca Aletti & C.  S.p.A and Banca Italease, are based on Fitch's view that Popolare would support  them, if needed. Fitch considers Credito Bergamasco and Banca Aletti as core  subsidiaries given their roles in the group. Credito Bergamasco will be merged  into the parent by end-1H14, upon which Fitch will assess and withdraw Credito  Bergamasco's ratings.

Fitch believes that Popolare would also provide support to Banca Italease, if  needed, as failure to do so would pose a significant reputation risk to the  group. Banca Italease will also be merged into the parent by end-2014. Similarly  to Credito Bergamasco, Fitch will assess and withdraw Banca Italease's ratings  once the merger is completed.

As the ratings of the subsidiaries are based on their parent's Long-term IDR,  the ratings are sensitive to changes in Popolare's Long-term IDR. The  subsidiaries' ratings are also sensitive to changes in the parent's propensity  to provide support, which Fitch currently does not expect.

Short-term IDR: affirmed at 'F3'

Viability Rating: downgraded to 'bb+' from 'bbb-'

Support Rating: affirmed at '2'

Support Rating Floor: affirmed at 'BBB'

Senior debt (including programme ratings): affirmed at 'BBB'/'F3'

Commercial paper: affirmed at 'F3'

Lower Tier 2 subordinated debt: downgraded to 'BB' from 'BB+'

Preferred stock and junior subordinated debt: downgraded to 'B' from 'B+'

Short-term IDR: affirmed at 'F3'

Support Rating: affirmed at '2'

Senior debt and programme ratings: affirmed at 'BBB'

Market-linked securities: affirmed at 'BBBemr'

Lower Tier 2 subordinated debt: downgraded to 'BB' from 'BB+'

Trust preferred securities: affirmed at 'C'

Short-term IDR: affirmed at 'F3'

Support Rating: affirmed at '2'

Short-term IDR: affirmed at 'F3'

Support Rating: affirmed at '2'

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.
