
Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.

Same-sex marriage supporters celebrate at a marriage license line in Portland, Ore. A federal judge struck down Oregon’s ban on same-sex marriage on Monday, saying that it violated the US Constitution.

Mayor Bill de Blasio (center) follows behind as New York Police Officer Rosa Rodriguez is pushed in a wheelchair through a corridor of cheering fellow officers in New York. Rodriguez was severely injured while responding to a fire which killed her partner. The officers were overcome by smoke at a Coney Island housing project.

A woman reads messages on yellow ribbons dedicated to dead and missing passengers of the sunken South Korean ferry Sewol, at Seoul City Hall Plaza.

A visitor makes notes at a display of lupines during media day at the Chelsea Flower Show in London.

A Lockheed Martin F-16 of the Turkish air force performs during an acceptance flight at the upcoming ILA Berlin Air Show in Selchow near Schoenefeld south of Berlin.

A pro-Russian militant stands at a front-line rebel position on the outskirts of the eastern Ukrainian town of Slaviansk.

Children play at a shipyard by the river Buriganga, on the outskirts of Dhaka, Bangladesh.

A woman mourns at the graves of miners who died in Tuesday’s mine disaster, at a cemetery in Soma, Turkey. A Turkish court ordered three suspects to be kept in custody on Sunday on a provisional charge of “causing multiple deaths” in last week’s mine disaster, as the last of the 301 victims were buried. Of the remaining 22 people detained earlier, six have been released but could face prosecution later.

Damai and Rizki, orphaned Bornean orangutans, play in the courtyard at Surabaya Zoo before being released into the wild in Surabaya, Indonesia.

A man dressed as an orangutan sits next to members of the press during media day at the Chelsea Flower Show in London.

A man climbs on the roof of a house to feed pigs rescued during heavy floods in the village of Vojskova, Serbia.

Security forces take part in a drill conducted by the Interior Ministry and other Ukrainian security services in Odessa, Ukraine.

A man walks through a field of maize, planted under a film of biodegradable plastic which raises the soil temperature at the start of the season, near Londonderry, Northern Ireland.

Nigerians prepare a meal at an illegal camp near the fruit market in Boufarik, west of Algiers. At least 34,800 people have made the treacherous crossing from North Africa to Europe so far this year, compared to 43,000 in all of 2013, according to figures from the UN.

Robert Barnett works on a new home to replace the one that was destroyed almost one year ago by a tornado in Moore, Okla.

People walk past the remains of a car used for a suicide bomb in Kano, Nigeria.

Secretary of State John Kerry poses for a selfie with Yale student Ariel Kirshenbaum during Class Day at Yale University Sunday in New Haven, Conn.

A man stands in front of the courthouse after the sentencing of Cecily McMillan in New York. McMillan, an Occupy Wall Street activist convicted of assaulting a police officer, was sentenced to 90 days in jail on Monday.

A woman makes a tower using ice from an overnight hailstorm in the Aclimacao neighborhood of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Some told local media their children had never seen hail or played with ice.

A ship carrying Chinese workers leaves Vung Ang port, Ha Tinh province, Vietnam.  Watched over by riot police, hundreds of Chinese workers left Vietnam on Monday on ships chartered by their government after deadly unrest broke out last week amid a dispute over sovereignty claims in the South China Sea.

Thousands of dead fish wash up along boat slips at Marina Del Rey, Calif. The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Office said the dead anchovies, stingrays and even an octopus rose to the surface in a section of the harbor Saturday evening.

A bus carrying people to the grand opening of the PortMiami Tunnel makes its way through the tunnel. After four years of work and with a price tag of $915 million, the tunnel that will allow port traffic to bypass the streets of downtown Miami is ready to open this month, officials said Monday.

Pope Francis kisses the Gospel during the opening session of the Italian Episcopal Conference’s meeting at the Vatican.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Welcome back!

{* #socialRegistrationForm *}             {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *}             {* socialRegistration_displayName *}             {* socialRegistration_ageVerification *}             By clicking "Create Account", you confirm that you accept our terms of service and have read and understand privacy policy .

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

Create a new password Sent!

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
