
Ever heard of the insane option? The insane option is often the road less travelled. It is insane because it does not make sense, it does not make sense because it is insane! Yet, major advances in civilization happened only because somebody decided to think differently, to do things in ways nobody has ever considered.

The management people call it thinking out of the box. With such an intellectual baptism, the insane option suddenly begins to make sense—well, that is, if it works.

Insane is the way the letter written by some aggrieved indigenes of Borno State, to President Goodluck Jonathan, seems at first reading. According to news report, some of the indigenes want Jonathan to authorize them to arm themselves with “sophisticated” weapons to confront the menace of Boko Harams themselves and free the abducted Chibok girls from captivity.

Now that they are talking about “systemic corruption and ineptness based failure of governance”, you begin to wonder if they are referring to the president. You don’t talk about rattling bones near old people! If so, that betrays a bit of political motive. They seem to suggest by their letter that the Boko Haram insurgents are not so invincible after all, if only the leadership was right, if only our soldiers could fight, if only corruption was checked. These are points echoed by the global community anyway.

Now, to their request. On the short run, an armed local populace may be able to resist the impunity of the Boko Harams in their respective localities. As petitioners say, the locals know those behind the insurgency; they are no spirits, they are no special combatants. The Boko Harams are mostly bullies empowered by our systemic failures to unleash more terror. The more fear they inspire, the more they are empowerd and emboldened by such fear.

Yet, despite the prospect of a short term gain, granting the request of Borno vigilantes may turn out to be a strategic suicide for the nation. If you arm the locals to confront Boko Haram today, what happens to the guns afterwards? The Borno petitioners claim they have 50,000 to 100,000 people on standby ready to take up arms. Really? Assuming they are not blustering, arming 50,000 to 100,000 people in a state is the easiest road to Somaliasation of the country with state or ethnic armies. Note that the Biafrans who withstood Nigerian troops for 30 months started the war with merely a few hundred guns!

Even then, the petition underscores the need for our security forces to work with the local vigilante groups. That may be tricky in the current atmosphere of uncouth political recriminations between the state and federal government and uncertainty over individual loyalties. But such are risk of all wars anywhere which we must be willing to explore in order to go forward.

But despite the systemic failures so far, the regional security summit in France involving leaders of all our neighbouring countries whose lands had provided cross-border refuge for the insurgents, is already a major blow to the Boko Harams. A new era of enhanced co-operation between Nigeria-Cameroun-Niger-Chad should mean, one dares to hope, that insurgents are cornered. But underscore the words, should mean, because at times, theory and practice are worlds apart.

Dimgba Igwe, thank God for your life. I have always seen you as the “VOICE.” Today again you have spoken the minds of the voiceless. There is nothing more to add. Both the literal and figurative Sambisa, we await the outcome.

I have just finished your Sideview about Nigeria, Sambisa and our military’s failure in the country. I am very happy with your write-up. Thanks.

Sir, your “Nigeria in the Jungle of Sambisa” is down-to-earth and a masterpiece. This negligence syndrome is pronounced even here in Asaba. Kudos for your brilliant write-up!

Well done my beloved Dimgba. Your today’s piece is indeed a true narrative of our country and a must read for all Nigerians. May your pen never run dry!

Thank you Dimgba for writing this piece. This country is in a sorry state. It’s a pity. Once again, thank you.

Oga Dimgba, you mercilessly provoked the truth about Sambisa’s metaphorical connection with Nigeria’s failings as a state in decay—educational decline, ill-motivated military, poor intelligence gathering— all fueled by corruption and bad and inept leadership. Please, next write on how corruption will rule Nigeria.

Nigeria in the Jungle of Sambisa was a masterpiece my brother. Ride on with your pen biko.

Dimgba you are a Boko Haram writer. But remember that even America needed its allies to fight Osama bin Laden. You sound as though you see yourself as the only competent person in Nigeria but I tell you that those who think like you do only delude themselves.

Pastor  Dimgba no one can force Islam on those innocent victims, certainly not Shekau(dead or alive). We continue to insist that Boko Haram has nothing to do with Islam. We continue to insist that President  Jonathan must do something about the general insecurity in the country and especially in the north east. Our fervent prayer is for the return of our girls to the safety of their loved ones.

Your piece on Sambisa is another demonstration of the fact that you are the best penman to emanate from the east of the Niger. Please keep the fire burning. With 2 or 3 of your type dispassionately discussing topical issues without blinking an eyelid, Nigeria will surely be a better place.

You and the world should understand and appreciate the fact that Jonathan administration has been ambushed and sabotaged by an irate North and their elite. My problem is not what is happening now but what would happen during the tenure of a future northern president in this country. Boko Haram can kill all Nigerian if they like but Jonathan must rule, sir. You southern journalists are not helping matters at all.

This matter is deeper and more complex than you presented it in your column today. It goes beyond Jonathan’s leadership qualities. For decades, indeed ages, the political, religious, economic and social establishment and leadership in the North of our dear country, had through irresponsible, atavistic, feudal and sectional religious practices and mis-governance disguised as leadership, incubated the evil, wickedness, cruelty and intolerance of the one-sided religious sectarianism in the North and this monstrosity was unleashed on the entire nation through Boko Haram. And it is the monster that I beheld when I saw today the images of the daughters of Zion in captivity. This is an evil that is deeper and goes well beyond Jonathan’s leadership qualities or lack of it. The sustained irresponsible, inflammatory blood curdling utterances of prominent members of the Northern establishment and their open and undisguised hatred for Jonathan had fed this monster and may have helped in nourishing it with recruits, sponsors, donors and financiers in their multitudes and stripped it of any inhibitions it may have hitherto entertained in its bloodlust. The abduction of the daughters of Zion in Chibok has opened the eyes of the international community not to Jonathan’s supposed ineptitude, incompetence and alleged leadership deficit, but rather to the pure and undiluted evil that had been quietly incubated inside Nigeria and released unto our national space. Foreign leaders of major world powers tend to be better informed and the outpouring of real practical assistance by them to Nigeria is a creditable acknowledgment of the positive assessment of the person of our president. It is not easy for any president to escape without bruises or even serious political wounds and damage in a situation such as the present one. President George W. Bush was accused of ineptitude and incompetence after the 9/11 tragedy in the USA and many actually blamed his alleged cluelessness for making the attack possible. The American CIA and FBI was taken to the cleaners, and after Osama bin Laden escaped from Torah Bora in Afghanistan, the standing of American military and George Bush himself sank very low. It took the American military and intelligence 10 years to restore their credibility through the killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. What Jonathan is going through today in Nigerian and international public opinion is thus easily understood by many serving and retired world leaders. The action of Jonathan in seeking and accepting international assistance is radical, decisive and commendable.

Mr. Igwe, you made my day on the back page of Daily Sun newspapers of 13/5/3014. You are among the few patriotic writers with pen powers to educate Nigerians. In this write-up ‘Nigeria in the Jungle of Sambisa’ you were able to capture virtually all the exposures that come to bear as a result of the abducted girls in Chibok. Igwe may Allah guide and protect you as you continue with the good works. Amen.

Yusuf Agwai Moh’d, Abuja, 08095952323.

Brother, very educating and fine write-up titled: Nigeria in the Jungle of Sambisa.

Your column this week is the mirror President GEJ needs to assess his image. Keep it up.

Your perspective, insight and delivery last Tuesday was cerebral and lifting. Nigeria is indeed in the jungle of Sambisa. Nigeria is Sambisa. Sambisa is the macrocosm of a microcosmic Nigeria. Else, how is it that Sambisa keeps defying this “Giant of Africa” Sambisa’s Goliath, be informed that you have defied too long, but unknown to you, little insignificant David is about to be unleashed to your utmost disgrace. I join the #BRING BACK OUR GIRLS SAFE AND ALIVE NOW.

Dimgba, I am so much captivated by your Sideview topic . Your observations to the situation, ‘Nigeria in the Jungle od Sambisa was well articulated and presented. I salute your courage. In the interim , we have and we have had so many analogue leaders in Nigeria – that is why we have also produced analogue graduates. Therefore it is shameful that our military, paramilitary are also analogue in their outlook. That is why they have failed to uproot the Boko Haram gorillas that dug in that bloody jungle, coupled with the inability of the (NASRDA) to effect proper remote censoring of that notorious Sambisa jungle. It is very fair that the much jubilated Nigeria SatX and Sat2, had only 2.5metres resolution – what a shame. I am sorry for the Director General of NASRDA who did not reject those poorly designed satellites – has shown corruption in every aspect of our developmental processes.

At this point, Mr. President should declare total emergency on Borno state and close the entire international boarders along Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States.  Collapse the democratic government of Borno state and assign an administrator preferably from the State Security Service. He, Mr. President must also be ready in the period of the total emergency period, replace the SATX and SAT2 toy satellites with more powerful ones that will have the capacity to track individual movements. The president must wake up and clean all cobwebs around him –take extreme proactive decisions that will put his administration into top gear to tackle both civilian and military problems causing the wide spread insecurity in the country. I also advice all Nigerians to mind and bridle their tongues, the press and the electronic media must stop being biased in their reporting. I want to also warn all the politicians to be careful.

The president should be careful with the way he deals with negotiations on the abducted Chibok girls. Finally, those who think that Nigeria belong to them only must have a serious rethink. That there was 3-year bush war does not make the people of the Southeast perpetual slaves to the Northern and the Southwestern people, because it will be stoutly resisted in any way. For what is going on today in the northern region is because the so-called Northern elders did nothing to emancipate their people from deadly iron grip their aristocratic and oppressive elite imposed on their teaming youth. I intend to make it clear to every Nigeian to bear in mind, that any group that is oppressed up to 50years, that does not react, are nothing but slaves. Therefore I advise the northern elders, their emirs, their spiritual heads and their Sultan to call their book haram youths to order to release those girls in their custody and surrender without further delay.

Start receiving  Breaking News & Alerts by simply adding your email below. A confirmation email will be sent to you!

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.
