
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP: The International Association of Administrative Professionals' Charleston chapter meets and holds its annual awards. 6 p.m. Zeus Grill and Seafood Restaurant, 725 Johnnie Dodds Blvd., Mount Pleasant. Call 218-5151 for more information.

Export BASICS: The S.C. Department of Commerce, S.C. District Export Council and U.S. Commercial Service hold a workshop on exporting basics. 8 a.m.-4 p.m., Midlands Technical College Enterprise Campus Auditorium, 151 Powell Road, Columbia. $65. Go to www.sctrade.org/events.html to register.

FOR JOB SEEKERs: Charleston County Public Library offers one-on-one help with online applications and a resume lab. 1 p.m. St. Andrews Regional Library, 1735 N Woodmere Drive, Charleston.

DEALING WITH THE MEDIA: The Greater Summervile/Dorchester County Chamber of Commerce's tourism council holds a workshop: "Best Practices for Communicating with the Media." 8 a.m. 402 N. Main St., Summerville. The scheduled speaker is Becky Collette of Goodwill Industries of Lower South Carolina and a former TV news reporter. Registration required. Call Tina Zimmerman at 873-2931 or go to greatersummerville.org for more information.

Small BUSINESS finance: The coastal chapter of SCORE holds a workshop on how to use financial statements to manage a business and how to prepare a successful loan application. 6-8 p.m. Lonnie Hamilton III Public Services Building, 4045 Bridge View Drive, North Charleston. $20. Go to www.score285.org to register or to get more information.

Hurricane Expo: Dorchester County Emergency Management Department holds a hurricane preparedness expo, 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Lowe's, 9600 Dorchester Road, Summerville. Scheduled participants include the Medical Reserve Corps, Red Cross, Coast Guard Auxiliary, S.C. Emergency Management Division, Trident United Way, Salvation Army and area fire departments. Go to  www.dorchestercounty.net/emergencymanagement for more details.

Housing Summit: The South Carolina Community Loan Fund will hold a tri-county housing summit. 9 a.m.-2 p.m. Trident Technical College's Complex for Economic Development, Building 920, 7000 Rivers Ave., North Charleston. The keynote speaker will be Michelle Winters, Urban Land Institute's senior visiting fellow for the Terwilliger Center. Go to www.sccommunityloanfund.org for details.

The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.

We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .

© 2014, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.

All Rights Reserved.
