
Over 300 professors and researchers, 50 senior academics, university administrative staff (PAS) and a wide range of Catalan trade unions are demanding that the Catalan Generalitat end its collaboration with Israeli institutions.

The “BDS Acadèmic per Palestina” collective, which forms part of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel (BDS) campaign , are trying to start a university solidarity movement with the Palestinian people. This movement will promote active criticism of the apartheid politics and oppression of the Israeli government and denounce complicity of European governments with respect to the systematic violations of United Nations resolutions, international law and the human rights of the Palestinian people by the Israeli state. As part of this campaign, there is a call for civil society and the university community to support the academic boycott of Israeli institutions and the people who represent them, not individual Israeli students.

According to the campaign, "Given the clear support of the Catalan Generalitat for making the Israeli state a priority partner, with a particular emphasis on university partnerships, the support acquired by this campaign is especially important. Nearly half of all the signatures collected in Spain are from Catalonia, and include high profile figures such as Joan Subirats, Josep Fontana and Arcadi Oliveres. The main students’ unions (SEPC, AEP etc.) as well as trade unions (CGT, COS, IAC etc.) have also given their support to the demonstrations and international Boycott, Divestments and Sanctions against Israel campaign."

In order to present the successful results of the Academic BDS campaign in Catalonia, a meeting of the Secretariat for Universities and Research was called to present the demands of the campaign and the corresponding support, but there has been no positive response from this body. Meetings with the different rectors of Catalan universities were also called, and a meeting with the rector of the Vic University has been confirmed.
