
Michael Fingerhut of Florida, a son of Robert Fingerhut, who was murdered in his Howland home Dec. 11, 2001, says Donna Roberts, 69, is evil and manipulative.

He wishes he could come to Ohio whenever there’s a hearing such as the one April 30 in Trumbull County Common Pleas Court, in which Roberts was again sentenced to death, but it’s too expensive. He and other family members spent large sums of money coming to Ohio during two trials.

She is the only woman on Ohio’s death row and is housed in the Ohio Reformatory for Women in Marysville. Death row for her means she’s allowed out of her cell from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. each day. She remained on death row even after the Ohio Supreme Court vacated her death sentence and ordered a new sentencing. Her execution date has not been set.

Michael Fingerhut wishes he could have sat in the courtroom April 30 so that people would know others care about Robert Fingerhut, the 57-year-old businessman shot to death by Youngstown native Nate Jackson two days after Jackson was released from prison.

And when people weigh comments Roberts has made since her 2003 murder conviction for planning the murder — comments about how she was sexually abused by a cousin and lived in a “very very abusive” home on a farm in Austintown and later suffered mental injuries in multiple car crashes — he wants people to know the Donna Roberts he has known for about 35 years.

“In the [nearly] 40 years I’ve known Donna ... it has never come up,” Michael Fingerhut said of the sexual assaults and psychological abuse Roberts talked about in court in 2007. She said she suffered a head injury in a 1999 car accident.

“She never claimed a head injury,” Fingerhut said of the time period between that accident and the murder.

Roberts conspired with Jackson — while Jackson completed a prison term — to kill Fingerhut, according to letters and phone calls prosecutors used at trial. She and Fingerhut were married in Florida in about 1981 and lived together about 20 years in Florida and Ohio. She was living with Fingerhut at the time of the murder.

Judge Ronald Rice of Trumbull County Common Pleas Court, in his April 30 sentencing entry, said there was no doubt Roberts and Jackson extensively planned the murder over three months.

“She conspired with Jackson, her imprisoned lover, to murder Fingerhut for his life-insurance proceeds. The murder plan was well-documented through telephone calls recorded from Jackson’s residence, the Lorain Correctional Institute,” Judge Rice said.

Roberts refused to ask the jury for mercy after being convicted in 2003. But by the 2007 hearing, she claimed the taped conversations between her and Jackson were “my imagination,” and “stories” like the ones she had written while in school, and she never meant for anything bad to happen.

One witness testified that Roberts was angry when Robert Fingerhut refused to give her $3,000, but Roberts “berated” that witness in her statement, Judge Rice pointed out.

“It seems these mischaracterizations of her social status were more upsetting to Roberts than the guilty verdict against her for complicity to commit murder,” the judge said.

Michael Fingerhut said Roberts never even called the Fingerhut family in Florida to tell them about Robert Fingerhut’s death. They learned a week later.

So sorry for your lose. Set a date and execute this woman and her lover. Why wait any longer. She is worthless to society. Her lover is stupid...he must love or missed his prison life to go back days after his release. This time to death row. Give ppl the closure they need.

May this evil woman remember everyday that Robert was a man that provided for her lazy butt, and she made the choice to be where she is today. Nobody feels sorry for your stupid arze. We all live with the choices we make.
