
A small company in Santa Fe could have a global impact on how medicines are shipped and stored in remote places around the world.

A few years ago, SAVSU Technologies developed a thermal packaging system that can keep vaccines and biopharmaceuticals fresh for up to 10 days. That’s essential in developing countries where electricity and refrigeration are often unavailable, endangering medicines that perish in heat.

Now, Sandia National Laboratories has helped SAVSU build a solar ice-making machine that, once the company starts marketing it in the fall, can replenish ice in the company’s thermal containers as needed, essentially creating a solar-powered storage system for medicines.

That could provide a major boost for immunization and medicine delivery worldwide, said SAVSU President Bruce McCormick.

SAVSU, which stands for “State of the Art Vaccine Storage Unit,” has been marketing its thermal containers for a few years to community health centers in Asia, Africa and Latin America.

McCormick developed the container, called the NanoQ, in partnership with a materials-science company in New York that helped create the super-insulating design.

SAVSU uses a contract manufacturer in Mexico to produce the NanoQ and two other containers: the CyroQ for shipping materials at deep-frozen temperatures, and the PHD for small-volume shipments.

The company expects to begin marketing the solar ice maker with its containers before the end of the year, after Sandia scientists help the company test some new designs and materials that could increase the ice maker’s efficiency.

The New Mexico Small Business Assistance program, launched in 2000, pairs businesspeople who need technical help with experts from the state’s national laboratories and research universities.

Last year, the program provided $4.6 million worth of assistance to 354 small businesses. Since its inception, the program has helped 2,195 businesses for a total value of $39 million in research hours and materials. That assistance helped create or retain 3,510 jobs, increased small companies’ revenue by $172.5 million, and decreased operating costs at those firms by $79 million.

Sandia is assisting SAVSU through the New Mexico Small Business Assistance program, which teams businesspeople with experts at Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratory to resolve technical problems.

McCormick first approached Sandia for assistance in 2011 to transform the NanoQ from a simple transportation container into a long-term storage device using solar ice-making technology that Sandia originally created in the 1980s.

Through the SBA program, Sandia paired McCormick with two scientists, physical chemist Eric Coker and mechanical engineer Brian Iverson. They, in turn, redesigned the original technology to fit SAVSU’s needs.

The ice maker is basically a 1-meter-square, closed-loop system that functions like a refrigerator, but without electricity to drive the ice-making process. Rather, it uses solar heat and a porous carbon material to generate freezing temperatures to make ice.

The carbon material, very similar to charcoal, is an absorbent that is particularly prone to gathering and retaining methanol. In the day, the sun heats the carbon, which causes the methanol to evaporate into gas. Cooling fins (like in a car radiator) then help pull heat out of the gas, causing the methanol to reliquify and trickle down to a condenser below.

The condenser is surrounded by a reservoir of water. In the evening, when the sun stops evaporating the methanol from the carbon into gas, a reverse process begins, whereby the carbon starts to reabsorb the liquid methanol from the condenser chamber below.

To do that, the methanol pulls heat out of the water reservoir, turning the methanol back into gas and leaving behind cold-enough temperatures to freeze the water into ice.

The ice maker can produce from 2 to 12 pounds of ice per day, depending on how sunny it is.

This summer, Coker and Iverson will evaluate alternative carbon materials and ice-maker designs to make ice even more efficiently, McCormick said. The more ice the device can make, the more vaccine and other medicines can be kept fresh in SAVSU’s thermal containers.

Note: Readers can use their Facebook identity for online comments or can use Hotmail, Yahoo or AOL accounts via the "Comment using" pulldown menu. You may send a news tip or an anonymous comment directly to the reporter, click here .
