
Woman arrested for grabbing 12-year-old by the THROAT at elementary school because he was bullying her daughter 'may have attacked the wrong kid'

A Northern California sheriff's  official says a mother suspected of attacking a 12-year-old boy she said  was bullying her daughter at school may have targeted the wrong child.

Sonoma  County sheriff's Lt. Steve Brown said Monday that investigators have  not found anything linking the boy to the bullying allegations.

The  girl's mom, Delia Garcia-Bratcher, was arrested Saturday on suspicion  of inflicting injury on a child after sheriff's deputies say she came to  Olivet Elementary Charter School in Santa Rosa on Friday and grabbed  the boy by the throat.

The 30-year-old is alleged to have assaulted the boy in front of a number of children, the Sonoma County Sheriff's office added in a statement.

No adult saw the confrontation, and Garcia-Bratcher apparently had not checked in with the school office before coming on campus, authorities said.

The young witnesses later told a deputy the mother threatened the boy about bullying her daughter.

School district officials are also investigating the possible bullying.

A telephone number for a Delia Bratcher was disconnected. But on a Facebook page that said it belonged to Bratcher, she posted that she was hurt by the accusation and asserted that 'the truth will be told.'

Lt. Mark Essick told the Santa Rosa Press-Democrat that deputies were looking into the bullying claims but have not substantiated them.

'It's pretty unreasonable for a parent to go storming on campus like this,' Essick said. 'You can see fingerprints on his neck. 'To take it into her own hands was absolutely the wrong thing to do.'

However, news of Ms Garcia-Bratcher's arrest was met with mixed reaction as it circulated through social media sites.

One Twitter user, identified only as Greg, wrote: 'My mom would've done the same thing 25 years ago and did. Beware bullies.'

Wayne Street wrote on another site: 'Good for Mom. Hopefully the kid will get the message.'

Matthew Hayward wrote on Santa Rosa's The Press Democrat newspaper comment section: 'I have three kids, and the idea of them getting pushed around makes me upset.

'However, we, as adults, have to set the example for children.

'The kids who witnessed this event will think vigilante justice is ok. She could have made her point, without putting her hands on the kid. She resorted to violence, which puts her on par with the bully.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
