
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

The bust, which turned up heroin, marijuana and more than $8,500, was the result of a two-month undercover investigation into illegal drug trafficking, the Warren County Prosecutor's Office announced today.

Authorities from five departments, including police in Greenwich, Phillipsburg and Washington Township, N.J. , on Friday raided the home in the 200 block of Arbor Drive, in the Stewartsville section of Greenwich Township.

Two "pit bull-type dogs" were secured by members of the Warren County Tactical Response Team before police arrested five people who were staying in the home and seized the drugs and cash, authorities said. The dogs were later taken into custody by the township's animal control officer.

As part of the investigation, authorities caught Reynaldo Ortiz, 39, and Khaleen Best, 25, selling marijuana on different dates this month in the township, according to the criminal complaint. Ortiz was found Friday in possession of more than 50 grams of marijuana, records say.

Additionally, Ortiz and Best are accused of conspiring with one another to sell the drugs.

Two others, Jessica Maxfield, 22, and Lena Campbell, 44, face charges they possessed heroin and were fugitives, with active warrants for their arrests in Warren County.

Maxfield was also wanted in Northampton County where a bench warrant was issued last week when she failed to appear for a probation violation hearing, records indicate.

The fifth person arrested, 25-year-old Jeremy Smith, is alleged to have had under 50 grams of marijuana and drug paraphernalia. He was released pending a court appearance.

The remaining four were sent to the Warren County jail in lieu of $20,000 bail. Each is scheduled to make a first appearance today in New Jersey Superior Court in Belvidere to answer to various drug-related charges.

A judge has ordered that a bail source inquiry form would be a condition of their release. That means whoever posts the bail must fill out a questionnaire disclosing the source of the bail funds, previous and current employers, relationship to the defendant and other information.

A Drug Offender Restraining Order has also been issued against all five individuals, the prosecutor's office said. The order prohibits them from returning to the home.

© 2014 PennLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of PennLive LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
