
The co-worker of a social worker stabbed to death in St. Helens two years ago is pushing to get Oregon law changed.

Mental health patient Brent Redd stabbed Jennifer Warren to death on May 20, 2012 while Warren was delivering Redd’s medication. Daniel, who left her job after the murder, said Warren’s family filed a wrongful death lawsuit against several state and local agencies. But, under Oregon law, Warren’s family can’t sue the employer, Columbia Community Mental Health, or the state department that contracted with them because of workers compensation.

A proposed bill , introduced in the Oregon House of Representatives this year, would change that.

Daniel said the proposed bill would motivate the state and other employers to add safety protocols and oversight.

Columbia Community Mental Health has changed some things since Warren’s murder. Workers now carry a panic alarm, for example. Daniel said that’s not enough.

The proposed bill didn’t get far with lawmakers this year, but Daniel is trying to get the word out , so there’s more progress on it next year.

Social workers get paid diddly and then to have their families slapped in the face when they were put into an unsafe situation with the state having no liability, that is outrageous.

This law is about forcing responsibility from companies like CCMH. Example - If CCMH was held accountable then they would do what ever it was necessary to prevent a law suit. Maybe they would listen to staff notes outlying a problem or make sure that the company monitoring the panic switched is reliable and that every employee while working has a functional panic switch. Maybe the clinicians in charge of the cases will show up at the facilities when a problem occurs. This bill is accountability and it should be. Who at CCMH was held accountable for Jennifer's death? Who lost their Job or was disciplined? The answer No one!

-She was delivering drugs to someone who had a history of violence and he killed her.

-Brent Reed had lowered his medication doseage due to a virus and thus could have been crazy because the drugs supposedly made him normal.

-She should've been with someone else and not by herself in this situation, so this means her death could've been prevented because her employer knew about Brent Reed being crazy and having a history.

-For some reason the law prevents her family from suing the mental health system.

I think the lawÂ should allow her to sue if there was negligence.

We need to stop this blasted "band-aid" garbage and get to the root of the problem.Â  And, until we can get to the root of the problem, these workers MUST be allowed to utilize self defense to keep themselves and others safe.

Another "emotional" law being pushed under the guise of Prevention.Â  This could not have been prevented.Â  If someone has intent especially while being mentally compromised to harm another, there is very little that can be done to stop it.Â  Short of restraints.

This will certainly help the attorneys however.

Now if you could sue state managers PERSONALLY, then it would make a difference.

Â The law should be changed, but,Â  politicians have minds that work differentlyÂ from normal people.Â  If one of their family members would have been killed, they would do something, otherwise probably not.Â Â That is, unless, Â there was some big bucks in it for them.

I like that she points out that when people think they may lose money they tend to do what they need to in order to prevent that from happening. As someone who has worked in this field I can say it just all depends on where you work when it comes to agencies meeting or following safety standards.

I know Jenifer's Father, my Girlfriend did Jenifer's job until a month before the murder and still works for CCMH. I hope they pass this law, these workers need better protection and their Families deserve having them protected.

Nothing would have prevented this death. People who are intent on murdering someone is not going to stop at yet another law. Murder is already against the law.

This is about money and getting more of it. If you read the law as proposed it is all about suing the state or local government. That's all it is.

@tullyB Really? Show some respect for my friend who died doing her job!

@wandering So are you suggesting my Girlfriend packÂ a weapon that one of her Patients could overpower her, take it from her and kill her? The best defense is in Numbers and controlling the situation. There are rules concerning that and they need to be followed.

@Quaoptician Making the delivery an hour later or earlier could have prevented the tragedy.

@Quaoptician Are you for real? This could have been avoided! If CCMH has listened to the staff who deals directly with the staff daily this could have been avoided! Because there is no accountability they do not care. Big deal they have panic buttons, they do not track where the person wearing them is at. AnÂ alarm goes off the monitoring company calls CCMH to find the location of the employee then law enforcement is called. Hold businesses like CCMH accountable and they would make the job safer!

@Quaoptician Yes it could have if the Employer had followed the rules and had had two people there to deliver the meds it would not have happened.

@Philip Marlowe It will make it very expensive to not follow the rules. There was supposed to be a second qualified person with her and there was not. Workman's Comp. is not designed to cover criminal negligence by the employer. Why should OSHA get all the money and not the two kids that Jenifer left behind? OSHA will get their money for the safety violation but the kids get nothing but the paltry Workman's Comp. payout. These people who do this work need the protection and the Employer needs to follow the rules or make it right.

You do know it was a state worker who was killed right? Also, state managers are not protected by a union. You might want to become a little bit informed before shooting your mouth off.

Now if they were armed, that might make a difference.

@Ironclad Â  You can require all the "security standards" in the world.Â  None of which will do one damn bit of good if those "security standards" are not adhered to.

We don't hire enough people to send one every time needed. You think we have enough for the buddy system? The mantra for front line state workers is do more with less. Then next year it's do even more with even less.

@lee98632 The Cops do not have the Man Power or time to do that. At least not is St. Helens and in Portland that could be a death sentence!

@swede760 @wandering Â  Did I say "pack a weapon"?Â  There are a multitude of other self defense devices out there that could be utilized.Â  Also, if someone is going to deal with a known psycho, perhaps they should not be going alone.

And what is wrong with "packing a weapon" (assuming you are referring to a gun)?Â  Of course, proper training in the handling and use is a must.Â  If it is concealed, the psycho won't know about it.Â  If a worker is being threatened, they may have a better chance at survival.Â  I just think that those working with these mental whacks should at least have the option of what they feel comfortable with when it comes to protecting their lives.Â  Of course, that also means that the laws actually need to ALLOW them to defend themselves from attacks.

@swede760 Â  Here's the problem with your logic:Â If the patient could overpower her, the patient does not need to get a weapon from her to kill her.Â  The patient can just kill her with impunity anyway.Â  Without the weapon she has no chance, with it she has a chance.

@swede760 @Quaoptician Â  "would not have happened"?!Â  No guarantees there.Â  Sure, odds are better for the workers, but some big psycho could easily take out 2 people that have no means by which to protect themselves.

@swede760 Â  @Philip Marlowe Â Thank you for that bit of info, that is the sort of detail we (the public) needed to be informed about what went wrong and how the proposed bill would change things.

@KM No she was not a State worker, CCMH is a Non-Profit Organization. They have to follow State Rules and they do charge OHP and Medicare but they are privately operated.

A training course in the use of bear spray  could work too.   More likely to be used by a social worker as it is non  lethal.  After all they only need to be able to run away and call in.  They know  who attacked them and it will be a while before the client can see to  flee.

The law should also grant some limited  liability protections for a worker defending themselves while trying doing their  job.

@KM She was NOT a State worker people! CCMH I a Non-Profit Organization not a State Agency! Two very different things.

@tullyB @swede760 @wandering Anyone who thinks there is a comparison between St. Helens Oregon and Los Angeles has to be a complete Moron!

@swede760 @tullyB @wandering I saw on a Netflix show about the LA police have a computer program that predicts gang violence based on the information fed into it. What I am talking about is the statistical lag period during the day. Cops during the day are mainly out there to keep traffic flowing. The safety in numbers is having a cop with them. The cops are not that busy during the day.

@tullyB @swede760 @wandering So if the Cops had an emergency people would go with out the psychotropic drugs they need to stay sane, bad idea! Safety in Numbers is the only way that works.

@swede760 @wandering With all the data that is available, times could be set for cops to accompany the deliveries during slow times for the police.

@swede760 @wandering Duh!Â  Like I said, patients have no reason to know that the workers have "something" which they can use to defend themselves should the need arise - you know - concealed.

And, "safety in numbers" is not a guarantee that workers will actually be safe.

@wandering @swede760 Duh! What have I been saying is the solution? Safety in Numbers! Weapons are not allowed on any of CCMH's facilities. Your Weapons idea would just make the Patients more paranoid and likely to act out.

@garys43077 @swede760 Once again the only reasonable solution is the employer following the safety rules and keeping safety in numbers for the workers. Arming them will just make the situation worse by making the Patients more paranoid than they already are. Maybe it would not hurt for them to have hand to hand self defense classes but weapons are not allowed on property.

@anathoth @swede760 @KM Kind of difficult for me not to be informed. I know Jenifer's Father and My Girlfriend works for CCMH and had done Jenifer's job in the past. I am also very educated in Workplace safety and the Employer blew it. They need to do more than they have and it seems the only way to get that done is to threaten their wallets.

@swede760 Â  @KM Â Thanks, swede760 for being the informed one in this conversation...unlike that of KM's "foot in big mouth" statement.

You're right about a major change like that in phyc meds should have been done  in a more controlled environment.

We have to disagree about pepper spray.  A lot of joggers and walkers carry it  for the unexpected.

@swede760 Â  Here's the problem with your logic:Â If the patient could overpower her, the patient does not need to get a weapon from her to kill her.Â  The patient can just kill her with impunity anyway.Â  Without the weapon she has no chance, with it she has a chance.

@WebFootSTi @Matthew B @flyingtime That is just plain Stupid guys! My Girlfriend works for CCMH and there is no way I would want her to carry any type of weapon at work. The Patients could overpower her and use it on her and others. The only protection is in Numbers of Trained Professionals in the facility. The Guy who murdered Jenifer was in the process of getting ready for a surgery and they were weaning him off of his Psych meds, they should have done that in a Hospital setting not a residential one.

@tullyB @swede760 @lee98632 Great, so now I have to be extra careful to not be taller than a Cop.

@swede760 @tullyB @lee98632 My experience has been the short cops have the problem. I believe there can be coordination between mental health and police.

@tullyB @swede760 @lee98632 99% of PPB is Mental to start with!

Portland,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
