
The USA kicked off the trend with RedStateDate ,    a website where Republicans can “meet a running mate”, whilst the UK’s new OKComrade site is designed to appeal to "socialists, communists, and    anarchists” and keep the right-wing riff-raff out.

Handy for some I suppose, but what a bore it must be to stick to your own smug    little circle of peers who mirror your righteousness and justify your    parochialism. I’ve had some of the best dates, conversations and sex of my    life with men whose political views I found laughable and potentially    dangerous.

During university, I dated an anarchist. In the evenings, he would go out and    daub graffiti all over the streets of the square mile whilst I watched    movies in his squat in Bow. Recently, I was invited for dinner at a man’s    house and couldn’t help but be diverted by the framed poster of Thatcher    above his fireplace.

I’ve dated across the political spectrum and have found that the Tory    worldview - long-term economic planning builds a stronger, more competitive    economy - translates into partners who value monogamy, loyalty and shared    ambitions, relationship-wise. Whilst Labour’s stance on social justice, a    strong community and strong values manifested itself in my Ed-voting ex’s    gregarious approach to socialising and a passionate defence of his viewpoint    whenever it was confronted.

Have I ever dated a Ukiper? I don’t think so. I’m pretty sure I’d know if I    had. Ukip supporters are like vegetarians in that regardless of whether you    ask or indeed remotely care where their allegiances lie, they will tell you    anyway.

For those who are keen to know but too embarrassed to ask, is it possible to    identify political allegiances from an online dating profile? Sure. Take a    swish through Tinder. Trendy glasses and an embroidered pashmina? She’s a    Green girl. Pearl earrings and neon-clad gap-yah party pics? Sure sign    you’re taking a Tory to bed.

Which is not to say you should dismiss them because you don't like their    voting habits. In fact, it’s entirely possible, sometimes even preferable,    to maintain a relationship across the barricades.

Watching the way our political leaders interact with one another confirms    this, in my opinion. The petty, jokey bun-fight that is PMQs closely    resembles the quarrels and power dynamics of our relationships closer to    home. Ed and Dave are like an old married couple sometimes. And just like in    relationships, after the arguments have subsided, MPs, spads, and interns    all head to Westminster's watering holes to socialise and philosophise    magnanimously with one another. It’s no wonder eyes (and hands) have    wandered across the Commons floor.

Scottish National Party activist Natalie    McGarry and Tory councillor David Meikle met across the hustings on    opposing sides in the Scottish parliamentary elections. Ehud    Olmert , who served as the rightwing nationalist Prime Minister of    Israel from 2006 to 2009 is married to Aliza, a leftwing artist critical of    his policies. Gro    Harlem Brundtland , Norway's first female PM (Labour) faced opponents    who pitted her Conservative husband against her. “Do as Gro did, choose a    Conservative,” said one campaign poster, before she retorted “Do as Arne    Olav did, Choose Gro."

It just proves that relationships can blossom where you least expect them to,    whatever the obstacles. I may marry a man averse to my insistence upon our    kids going to state school regardless of whether we can afford private, but    if my child went to mosque with his dad I wouldn’t bat an eyelid.
