
Dear Proudly: First of all, thank you for your service. Apparently there are some serious problems in the VA system, and there appears to be evidence of a cover up that prompted the recent senate hearings. But even if the Veterans Administration is completely innocent or free of corruption, this incident highlights the problems with large bureaucracies and a bloated government. The larger the bureaucracy, the less accountability and oversight. Unfortunately, the health of our veterans has suffered.

During senate hearings, Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki said "Any allegation, any adverse incident like this makes me mad as hell." Well, let's hope his outrage produces better results than the "outrage" President Obama showed when he first heard about the IRS targeting conservative groups.

"If in fact IRS personnel engaged in the kind of practices that have been reported on and were intentionally targeting conservative groups, then that's outrageous. And there's no place for it." The president added: "Americans have a right to be angry about it, and I'm angry about it." Since Obama's IRS statements, the administration has done little to get to the bottom of the IRS corruption.

Doesn't this administration hold anybody accountable? Eric Holder, Lois Lerner and Kathleen Sebelius have all overseen government agencies that have either obstructed investigations or covered up failures and other malfeasance. Let's hope Shinseki isn't like these other Democrat hacks and the senate can resolve this dire situation so our honorable veterans can receive the medical attention they properly deserve.

Dear Major: Hagel's remarks came in response to convicted national security leaker Bradley Manning's, or now as he wants to be known, Chelsea Manning's transfer to a civilian prison where he can continue his transition to becoming a woman.

First of all, Manning was convicted of sending classified secrets to WikiLeaks and he's lucky he didn't face the firing squad for his gutless espionage. Secondly, and to address your question, as more liberals have crept into the Pentagon, the military unfortunately has become more of a politically correct social science petri dish than a finely tuned fighting machine.

Dear Go: Hillary Clinton and brain damage -- so many jokes, so few column inches.

Is anyone EVER held accountable you ask? Just watch Obama soil shorts, and acquire humility, and begin the self-pardons, when in 2014 the American people who believe in accountability hand the opposing party a veto proof Senate and the impeachment and jail sentences begin. Our founders gave us the means and the peaceful weapons of tyranny mass destruction if THE PEOPLE only have the courage AND WISDOM to act,,,,and to vote. The Whitehouse will soon learn the failed lessons of the past they now ignore of what can happen when you put your faith and trust in Reid’s that can only bend with the wind. Let the storm commence! THE PEOPLE are now learning that the healthcare ultimately to be received by such men will be the same our troops expected in promise when they entered their own battles expecting to be cared for if the worst occurred, only to find at the end in the days of accountability, betrayal of traitors who only used them to gain power, then cast them aside when no longer useful for their ultimate goals. Ask the German soldier of WWII, ask the Russian soldier of which 2 million defected rather than live under Communist rule. Now ask the AMERICAN soldier or sailor, then in retirement ask yourself! Welcome to the world of socialism, the world run by the collective body of greed, selfishness and coveting  of others goods in disrespect for the hours of labors and buckets blood expended to earn it. No, freedom  indeed is not free,,,,,just sometimes earned with the price of a vote.

Thanks ………………….

I agree with everything you say – except the outcome of the next election. The weak link is the “Jacksonian Democracy” ideology that removed safeguards from our process and gave ALL Americans the right to vote, regardless of how little they contribute or, more importantly, how much they take from the hard-working citizens. It has now become nothing more than a simple matter of demographics, and the parasites have been reproducing like rats and are overwhelming the system with numbers, and we’re paying them to do it. We’re now proceeding beyond the tipping point, and the country as it was envisioned by our founders and as constructed by a responsible and self-reliant constituent is lost.

NObama has, over his term, fired well over 200 key Military leaders, Generals, and down the ranks, who did not agree with his brazen ruination of our Military. He has since, appointed, only those who bow to his will, into those positions of power.

He is the big cog in the destructive spot of the well oiled, and nicely functioning machinery, which through his destruction, has become broken, and he is in charge, of hiring the so called mechanics, to repair it to his satisfaction.

Is this really any surprise to anyone, though?. He has done likewise to the whole Nation. Keeping this maniacal Lunatic happy, has become the job of all his pet appointees in all positions of power throughout our Government, and now our Military. We need true change, we need to have true hope, we need a new Government, to accomplish either. November is coming, get out and vote Conservative, so we have a chance to begin the repair of our Nation. Sitting home, and letting others make the difference, will not work.

We must not forget, that it was this President who suggested that our Military personnel pay for their own health insurance, since they volunteered, and knew the risks. It was this President who took God, Jesus Christ, the Bible, and anything Christian from the VA Hospitals. It is this President which has weakened our Military by letting the world know how sorry he was, that our Military was so strong. It was this President who now weakens our Military by letting sub-standard enlistees into the Military ranks. It is this President who continues to flaunt our weakness to our enemies, thus giving them the comfort to plan our demise.

Why was it again, that we kept this Marxist Dictator in for a second term?.

We have become the joke for the whole world, and the jester for our enemies. All at the hands of this man we must call at least for now, our President.

It sounds like nobody will ever be held accountable as long as Eric Holder is the Attorney General.  In every case referred to him thus far, he has announced that there will be no investigation.

Holder is apparently determined that no facts will be discovered that discredit himself or Obama.  So nobody will be blamed or punished.

Obama, et.al., has always held our military in contempt. It has always been the tip of the spear for our foreign policy.

He is hell-bent on emasculating the US military. To blunt the spear he has allowed active homosexuals and women to be used in combat roles. Now he is proposing to add transvestites.

Gen. Chesty Puller must be spinning in his grave!

Obama hasn’t “allowed” this to happen. All of those senior officers wrapped in colorful ribbons and shining bits of worthless awards at the Pentagon have “allowed” this to happen on their watch because of their never-ending, obsessive pursuit of another promotion. They are not deserving of respect for what their hell-bent careerism has done to what was once the finest combat force in the world.

Dear Mark,

Liberals have not “crept into the Pentagon.” Speaking as someone who’s been there, the senior officers in that waste-bin are not liberal. Politically speaking, the rats in that sewer are conservative-minded, but they have absolutely no morals and are driven strictly by careerism. Each and every one of them – and I don’t believe there are exceptions anymore – would sell his wife and daughter to a Juarez whorehouse or his son to a Bangkok bathhouse for a promotion; otherwise they would have already resigned and fled that stinking place as I did.  If Obama were to stroll out onto a nationally televised stage with the TV cameras rolling to announce to millions of viewers that he has one hundred generals and admirals waiting on the side for him to drop his pants so they can kiss his bare a$$, those esteemed “gentlemen” would scramble all over themselves to be first in line. In view of what they’ve let happen to our military, anyone over the rank of Lieutenant Colonel still on active duty is NOT to be respected.

Thanks, 1936 benz.  I truly believe you know what you are talking about.

Time to let criminals do time as criminals. If they wish to have the opportunities of free people they should avoid committing crimes, or they should wait to be released before demanding such rights. And in the name of reason, why should a CRIMINAL be given any elective rights at all? Unless, the criminal could have obtained and paid for himself or herself when not a criminal, and unless they are willing to pay for the procedure while in prison, what justifies that taxpayer gift?. If Bradley Manning wishes to be a girl, that’s fine, if HE can pay for it. CRIMINALS shouldn’t win the lottery of healthcare just because they commit a crime!
