
Everyone’s been talking about court for alleged carjackers, Tánaiste Eamon Gilmore on the coalition’s “bad few months” and Abu Hamza found guilty.

A teenager and man in his 40s both appeared court over carjackings, amid safety warnings from gardaí to the public.

Tánaiste Eamon Gilmore told TheJournal.ie that the coalition has had “a bad couple of months” – and that Labour is in contention for two European Parliament seats .

A couple stopped to help after a collision – and had their own car stolen .

The Department of Education has rejected Micheál Martin’s comments about ‘widespread cuts’ to SNA posts .

A prison body wants Travellers leaving prison to be able to avail of a dedicated strategy.

The INMO and Minister for Health continue to clash over whether HSE proposals compromise patient safety .

A European candidate said he was dragged out of the studio during a Prime Time ad break last night .

Two rape crisis centres are to close temporarily due to a €120,000 shortfall.

A woman with disabilities was awarded €30k after her employer refused to provide her with a chair .

Brian Cowen hit the campaign trail in Tullamore for Pat ‘The Cope’ Gallagher.

#NEW YORK Abu Hamza was found guilty of kidnapping and terrorism offences in a New York court .

#BALKANS More flooding is expected in the Balkans as the rivers reach new peaks .

#WAR CRIMES The Bosnian Serb ex-army chief Ratko Mladic’s defence case has opened against charges of genocide .

#NORTH KOREA Kim Jong-Un was said to have been “up all night” worrying about the collapse of an apartment block .

#PHILADELPHIA A US Airways flight had to divert to Dublin after crew felt ill – the second such incident this month .

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Here’s What Happened Today: Monday”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
