
President Obama may personally announce new carbon emissions limits on existing coal-fired power plants.

Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy on Monday said Obama has indicated he wants to put his personal touch behind the rules.

"The president has indicated his intent to announce himself" the carbon emissions rules, she said during a Google climate chat with Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz.

McCarthy called the move by Obama to announce the proposal "a strong indication of how important he sees this."

An EPA spokesperson subsequently said it's not positive the announcement will come from Obama since the president's schedule is not set in stone.

"Plans for the rollout have not been finalized," the spokesperson said.

When a rule is proposed it is typically published in the Federal Register to little fanfare. But Obama's personal announcement of the proposal will send a signal to Congress, and opponents of the rule, that he plans to see his climate agenda through to the end.

The EPA has been working on the proposal for existing power plants for the last year. It proposed carbon emissions rules for new power plants in January. The White House is sticking to a strict schedule to ensure both rules are finalized before Obama leaves office.

Opponents argue that the carbon limits will effectively shut down every coal plant in the country, and hurt the economy.

McCarthy argued that's not the case in her chat.

"I want to let everyone know that EPA has been working really hard to understand how we can make this rule both aggressive in terms of the amount of reductions it can achieve, as well as make it implementable and reasonable for every state to participate."

This story was updated at 3:26 p.m.

Obama's vacation ends The president returns to Washington after a vacation plagued by criticism.

Fears mount of ISIS infiltrating... Some lawmakers worry a visa program has created a major security weakness.

House Republicans hire legal... A contract with Baker Hostetler sets a cap of $350,000 for legal costs.

Sharpton blasts police at Brown... Rev. Al Sharpton said it was "time to deal with policing."
