
A Norfolk man was sentenced to five years in prison Monday for his role in a fatal pileup on U.S. 460 last fall - right after saying he wished he could trade places with the man who died.

Ronald Frank Quesenberry III, 25, entered Alford pleas in February to charges of involuntary manslaughter and reckless driving resulting in death - both felonies. He also entered the plea on two misdemeanors: driving on a suspended license and without an ignition interlock, a device that measures a driver's blood alcohol content. He was convicted in 2012 of driving while intoxicated.

An Alford plea means Quesenberry did not admit guilt but acknowledged that there was enough evidence to convict him. He originally faced a homicide charge, but that was dropped.

Thomas David Rush, 48, of Virginia Beach was killed Sept. 18 in a crash on the four-lane road that involved two tractor-trailers and six passenger vehicles.

Prosecutor George Bruch said that witnesses were prepared to testify that they were driving between 60 and 65 mph when they saw Quesenberry weaving in and out of traffic without signaling. They also reported seeing Quesenberry drive into oncoming traffic and hit the front wheel of Rush's tractor-trailer.

The semi flipped, and Rush, who was not wearing his seat belt, was ejected, according to a state medical examiner's report filed in court that cited police and observations at the scene. Part of the truck landed on him, according to the medical examiner's report.

The courtroom swelled Monday with family and friends of Rush and Quesenberry. Before Judge Rodham T. Delk Jr. handed down his sentence, Quesenberry turned to Rush's family and asked for forgiveness.

"If I could, I would take his place," he said.

Family remembered Rush as a loving fiance, father and grandfather. A few looked at Quesenberry through tears as they spoke in court.

Family member Danielle Reardon said that Rush would give anyone the shirt off his back. Her 2-year-old child still asks when Rush is coming home.

"He was the most fun-loving, spirited person," Reardon said.

Members of Quesenberry's family said he did not intend to cause anyone harm. He was engaged at the time of the crash. His fiancee, Melanie Brown, gave birth a few months later.

Quesenberry was on his way to work to provide for both, his family said.

"The remorse we have - no words can describe it," Brown said.

Sentencing guidelines called for between one and a little more than three years in prison. The judge noted the intensity of the crash in handing down a stiffer punishment of 12 years with seven suspended.

"The guidelines were not out there at the scene of the accident," Delk said.

COMMENTS ADVISORY: Users are solely responsible for opinions they post here; comments do not reflect the views of The Virginian-Pilot or its websites. Users must follow agreed-upon rules: Be civil, be clean, be on topic; don't attack private individuals, other users or classes of people. Read the full rules here.

- Comments are automatically checked for inappropriate language, but readers might find some comments offensive or inaccurate. If you believe a comment violates our rules, click the report violation link below it.
