
A 41-year-old man was given 180 days in jail after he failed to register as a predatory offender while living in Stillwater.

Phillip Michael Vega was sentenced in Washington County Court to 180 days in jail and five years probation on May 8, following his arrest in Stillwater on Oct. 15, 2013, for not registering his status as a predatory offender.

According to court records, Vega was convicted of third-degree criminal sexual conduct in Ramsey County Court in 1994.

On October 1, 2013, Stillwater police received information that an individual identified as Philip Vega was living at 1309 S. Greeley St. No. 1. Vega is required to register with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) as a predatory offender due to a prior designated conviction. The BCA showed Vega’s primary address as 52 George St. W., St. Paul. The Stillwater address was not listed on Vega’s registration paperwork.

The investigation revealed that Vega had been employed at Nacho Mama’s in Stillwater and that he provided 1309 S. Greeley Street No. 1 as his address on paperwork at the restaurant. Staff reported that Vega was living with his girlfriend in Stillwater, and that he was recently fired and a police report was filed at the time of the incident. It was reported that Vega drove a blue Pontiac Grand Prix with Minnesota license plates, and the vehicle was observed parked at 1309 S. Greeley St. on multiple occasions Oct. 1 and Oct. 15.

A search warrant was executed at address the morning of Oct. 15, and Vega was in a bedroom in the apartment.

Vega argued that he should not have to register and that he had no idea why he had to register. Police described him as as irate and screaming at officers.

Vega denied living at the residence and stated that he only slept there the night before.

A 19-year-old Fridley man received jail time after being a part of robbery in a Stillwater public bathroom last year.

Matthew James Klinefelter was sentenced to 60 days in jail and a $500 fine on May 7. On Aug. 29, 2013, at approximately 5:19 p.m., Stillwater police officers were dispatched to the area of 650 Main St. N., Stillwater after a report of a fight between two groups of people. Upon arrival, Sgt. Jeff Stender was directed to a group of five people who had been involved in the altercation. Two of the individuals, identified as minors, were injured. One minor had an injury to the right side of his forehead, but indicated that he didn’t know who had struck him or whether he had been struck with an object. The other reported he had been struck in the head with a gun.

The minor explained that he had entered the public bathrooms located in the 200 block of North Main Street. While in the bathroom, at least two men entered. They were later identified as Klinefelter and a 17-year-old minor.

A witness heard the statements and tried to enter the bathroom. A third man, later identified as a 17-year-old minor, was acting as a lookout and was outside the bathroom door, the complaint said. The witness told police that the lookout pulled a black semi-automatic handgun from his waistband, pointed it at her and told her to get the victim out of the bathroom or he would kill her. The victim stated that he began to struggle with the first minor suspect, but stopped when he saw lookout had a handgun pointed at the witness.

Klinefelter and the two minor suspects then fled the area. The victim’s friends who had been waiting for him outside the bathroom pursued the fleeing suspects. Another altercation occurred a few block away, where one of the pursuer was struck.

Officers located Klinefelter in a vehicle parked a short distance away.

The victim identified Klinefelter as one of the individuals involved in the robbery in the bathroom but said he was not the individual who had struck him.

Klinefelter declined to give a statement to the police. The other two minor suspects were arrested but were not included in Klinefelter’s sentencing.
