
THE Supreme Court has nullified the election of Deputy Minister of Commerce, Trade and Industry Taundi Chiseke as Mangango member of Parliament on grounds that the poll was fraught with electoral malpractices.

This is a matter in which Chiseke appealed against judge Anness Bobo-Banda’s judgment in favour of Patriotic Front  losing candidate Richard Simbula, who petitioned the election.

When the matter came up for judgment, the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the High Court on grounds that Mr Chiseke’s appeal lacked merit and that his election is null and void.

The court found that Mr Chiseke’s campaigns were characterised by illegal and corrupt practices, adding that he cannot distance himself from the MMD campaign as he was part of it.

It also found that the MMD mounted a dirty campaign through their threats that the PF would promote homosexuality, war, deportation, and confine people living with HIV and AIDS.

The court said the campaign was designed to ensure MMD’s victory and its candidates at all costs to the detriment of other candidates.

It upheld the High Court’s findings that the MMD’s campaign tactic of distributing money, bicycles and foodstuffs affected the electorate to the extent that they did not vote for a candidate of their choice.

It was the court’s view that it is not correct that the appellant was not blameworthy because there were witnesses who included the respondent who testified that Mr Chiseke was distributing items to the electorate, against the electoral code of conduct.

While pending judgment, the parties had agreed to have the matter settled outside court but the Supreme Court refused to sign the consent order and instead invited the Attorney General to be joined to the proceedings as an interested party and give submissions to the validity of the consent order.

Chiseke was accused of corruption and was alleged to be a foreigner, but in delivering her judgment in the High Court in 2012, Judge Bobo-Banda, declared Chiseke a Zambian.

She said it would be dangerous for the court to declare him a foreigner on the basis of hearsay.

Judge Bobo-Banda said the Immigration Department, National Registration Office, Passport Office, headmen and chiefs in the area and the petitioner all failed to bring documented evidence to convince the court that the respondent was not Zambian.

She said out of the nine allegations brought before the court, six had been proved while three had been dismissed as they had no sufficient evidence.

Those proved included distribution of hammermills, fertiliser, bicycles, and maize, as well as spreading false information on the legalisation of homosexuality, paying the electorate money in exchange for votes and threatening to kill and deport Nkoyas, Mbundas and Kachokwes if they voted for PF.

Basic HTML code is allowed.
