
TOPEKA, Kan. (WIBW-TV) — Shawnee County Coroner's office confirmed the young man who died after crashing his car into a tree on Lyman Road early Monday morning was Seaman High School Senior, Ronald Graham II, otherwise known as Ronnie Graham.

This is the third Seaman High School student to lose their life from a car wreck this year. Seaman High School had a moment of silence Monday morning to remember Ronnie.

Ronnie Graham graduated from high school Sunday afternoon. Hours later, at 3:40 am Monday, police say he was driving his green Ford in the 1300 block of Lyman Road when he crashed into a tree and died.

Kitty Trapp heard the crash from inside her home across the street.

"The sound was strange. I knew it was a wreck. It made me sick to my stomach, it makes me feel sicker knowing it was a teenager, it could be any of our kids," said Kitty.

Ronnie was with his girlfriend of two years, Courtney Huske, at a friends house before the crash. Courtney says he left for a short drive home.

"I didn't get to hug him, I didn't get to kiss him, and say goodbye and he left," said Courtney.

Ronnie is the third Seaman High School student this year to lose their life in a car wreck.

In April, 18-year-old Senior Emma Jo Pisocki was killed in a head on collision on K-18.

In February, sophomore 15-year-old Alayna Hutchison died when her car went off Rochester Road, hit a tree and burst into flames.

"There has been a lot, just over the past two years there have been so many, and Ronnie went to Seaman," Courtney says in disbelief.

Courntey says she wants Ronnie to be remembered as a caring, loving and hard working person.

" I would tell him that I love him, that is something I am really sad about. Don't ever let someone go even if you are mad at them without saying good bye because they can be gone like that," Courtney says snapping her fingers.

Courtney says Ronnie was hoping to be an auto mechanic.

Authorities say a man died after crashing into a tree in North Topeka early Monday.

Shawnee County Dispatch has confirmed to WIBW 13 News that a man was killed when his green 4-door Ford crashed into a tree at 1301 NW Lyman around 3:40 a.m. Monday.

Topeka Police along with assistance of a Kansas Highway Patrol Helicopter worked the scene.

No word yet on what may have caused the accident, which remains under investigation. Officials have not released the identity of the man killed.
