
More than half a billion dollars will be slashed from indigenous affairs and 150 programs rolled into just five if budget measures pass the Senate, making Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders among the hardest hit.

It's a chilly May day in Canberra as dozens of indigenous health leaders meet to lobby for exemptions to the contraversial co-payment initiative for indigenous Australians.

There was a collective shiver when Aboriginal Medical Services around the country realised the budget changes would take 90 million dollars from indigenous health and their clients would will be subject to the $7 GP levy.

Representatives of some of the 150 Aboriginal Medical Services, including two based at Casino and Grafton, met on Tuesday, foreshadowing staff cuts including GPs as aresult of the changes.

He said around 700 patients of the service have chronic illnesses and more soon will if they avoid GP visits because of the co-payment.

"Aboriginal people basically will not present to have their ill health taken care of, and ultimately those patients will get pretty crook and end up in hospital and then cost the system at least a thousand dollars a day."

150 programs in Indigenous afffairs will be rolled into just five: employment and land; education; health and safety; culture; and remote strategies in a move the government says  will save $534 million in five years.

However Kirstie Parker, the Co-Chair of the National Congress of Australia's First People, said there is very little detail as to how the new regime will work.

"There'll also be a cut of half a billion dollars over five years  to the indigenous portfolio generally".

"Now if that was savings within the bureaucracy that would be terrific but there's absolutely nothing to suggest that that will be the case."

Ms Parker says the loss of specific programs targetting indigenous disadvantage is likely to be exacerbated by other general budget cuts.

"We know they will disproportionately affect our people because they are the sickest, the most marginalised and the poorest Australians.

after young people and that's clearly not the case.

"And Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are very close, as of course are many other Australians who are living in very very tough circumstances already" said Ms Parker.

The Congress, which is an elected body representing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people,  has had its entire allocation of $15 million cut for three years.

Two-thirds of its staff were made redundant when the cuts were foreshadowed by the government and directors have taken a twenty percent pay cut.

Among the few bright spots, money was allocated to a school truancy officer program in 74 schools at a cost of $18 million; $54 million will be spent on extra police in remote communities over four years and $26 million will go to Indigenous teenage sexual health programs.

"Anything that focuses on getting out kids to school, getting our people employed in genuine meaningful employment and keeping our communities safe is money that is well spent but it cannot be to the exclusion of all of the other challenges that face our communities.

"It's just a  real problem when the government says OK we'll pick those things off discreetly without undestanding the relationship that all these other measures have to them and the rest of them can wither on the vine" said Ms Parker.
