
Your Post Has Been Launched!

Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.

State officials have said they will not appeal the ruling. Judge’s order is effective immediately.

WASHINGTON — Oregon cannot bar same-sex couples from marrying, a federal judge ruled Monday.

“Because Oregon’s marriage laws discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation, the laws violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution,” U.S. District Court Judge Michael McShane wrote.

The ruling from McShane is the 12th federal trial court ruling since last summer’s Supreme Court ruling striking down the Defense of Marriage Act to find a state ban on same-sex couples’ marriages and/or on recognition of such marriages to be unconstitutional.

Two federal appeals courts, those in Denver and Richmond, already have heard appeals of challenges from three states, Utah, Oklahoma, and Virginia.

Unlike most of the other challenges, however, none of the government officials in Oregon plan to appeal McShane’s ruling. In McShane’s order, issued moments after his opinion was released shortly after noon PT, he stated that the order stopping enforcement of the ban is effective immediately. Although Oregon law has a three-day waiting period for issuing marriage licenses, there are exceptions to that waiting period that mean couples could marry on Monday.

I believe that if we can look for a moment past gender and sexuality, we can see in these plaintiffs nothing more or less than our own families. Families who we would expect our Constitution to protect, if not exalt, in equal measure. With discernment we see not shadows lurking in closets or the stereotypes of what was once believed; rather, we see families committed to the common purpose of love, devotion, and service to the greater community.

The National Organization for Marriage, which had attempted to intervene in the case to defend the 2006 Oregon ban, was denied in that attempt by McShane. They have appealed that denial to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals and, on Monday, asked the 9th Circuit to stop proceedings at the trial court until that appeal could be considered. The 9th Circuit denied that request hours later on Monday, prior to McShane’s ruling.

I know, right? And there’s more where that came from.

Oops! It looks like you've already voted..

Sorry, you can only react up to three times.

Your link was successfully shared!

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.

Don't forget to share! Want to add another one? Go for it!

This cannot be undone.

BuzzFeed is currently working with select partners to help them track what’s hot on their sites using the same advanced social tracking and analytics tools used on BuzzFeed.com.

Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.

Your email has been sent!

Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.

Great! You'll get your first email soon.

Thanks for sharing.

Please try again later.
