
.  Jean Schneider (left), the widow of Winona Sheriff’s Department Investigator John Schneider, and Shirley Foss, Minnesota State Patrol Corporal Ted Foss’ mother, embrace at Wednesday’s memorial tribute.

On Wednesday, the flags outside the Winona Law Enforcement Center billowed in the wind at half-staff. Community members and law enforcement officers alike gathered in the uncharacteristically crisp May air to pay tribute to Winona Police Officer Mathew Hamilton, Winona Sheriff’s Department Investigator John Schneider, and Minnesota State Patrol Corporal Ted Foss, all of whom died in the line of duty.

“This reminds us of what can happen in the line of duty,” Minnesota State Patrol Lieutenant Heath Dienger said to a crowd that included members of the Winona Police Department (WPD), Winona County Sheriff’s Department, Goodview Police Department, and Minnesota State Patrol.

As different people stepped to the microphone, the tone of honor and sacrifice was evident in the words of both speeches and songs. While the dates of each officer’s passing varied — Hamilton in 1874, Schneider in 1980, Foss in 2000 — the significance of their sacrifices remains strong to the community, and above all, their families.

For the family of Investigator Schneider, the moving tribute was especially tough this year. “I thought after Monday, I’d be fine,” Scheider’s daughter Lori Meyer said as she wiped away tears. On Monday, the family traveled to St. Paul for the parole hearing of John Kirch, the man currently serving a life sentence for fatally shooting Schneider 34 years ago. It was Kirch’s second attempt at parole,10 years after his first attempt in 2004, and while he was denied, the Minnesota Department of Corrections parole board set his next release hearing for 2017. Schneider’s family had hoped for another 10 years.

“[The outcome] was really disappointing for the family,” Lori’s husband Jon Meyer remarked. Although frustrated with the result, Meyer said that the family was very appreciative and humbled at the outpouring of support from the Winona community with the amount of letters and emails sent to the board petitioning against Kirch’s release.
