
D.C. police on Monday arrested a second suspect in the May 6 beating death of a 60-year-old man who authorities said was robbed along a strip of restaurants and taverns on Capitol Hill’s Barracks Row.

Earl Patrick, 48, of Southwest, was charged with first-degree murder. A court hearing had not been scheduled as of Monday afternoon. Police said Patrick was arrested about 7:15 a.m. by members of the Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force.

Patrick, along with Zerrick Brown, 42, of Northwest, are each charged in the slaying of Carlton Coltrane , of Southeast, who police said was attacked about 12:50 a.m. at a 7-Eleven store in the 400 block of Eighth Street SE, about two blocks from the Eastern Market Metro station.

Brown was arrested Thursday and also charged with first-degree murder. He has been ordered jailed until his preliminary hearing on June 10.

According to a charging document filed last week in D.C. Superior Court, Coltrane was inside the convenience store buying groceries when a man standing next to him at the cashier grabbed him and dragged him out of the store. The document says another man joined the attack and one of them punched Coltrane in the head, causing him to fall to the ground. His wallet was then taken.

Coltrane was taken to United Medical Center in Southeast, but court documents say he left before he was treated. At home, relatives noticed his injuries and called an ambulance. Police said he was taken to George Washington University Hospital, where he was treated and released.

Later that night, police said the victim continued to have problems and called 911. He again was taken to GWU Hospital and was admitted in grave condition. Police said Coltrane died May 9, and his death has been ruled a homicide.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
