
State Sen. Lucia Guzman, CU President Bruce Benson, former state Sen. Paula Sandoval, Gov. John Hickenlooper and Dan Theodorescu, director of the University of Colorado Cancer Center, at the May 8 reception to raise money for a scholarship in honor of the late Paul Sandoval.

But as friends gathered at the Brown Palace Hotel on May 8 to hear about the establishment of a scholarship in Sandoval’s name at the University of Colorado Cancer Center, they learned about other facets of their beloved hero. Dr. Colin Weeks, Sandoval’s physician at CU, spoke about one of Sandoval’s legacies — the importance of living a purposeful life.

Amanda Sandoval and her husband Michael Encinas, left, enjoy their encounter with Dr. Colin Weeks at the reception on May 8 at the Brown Palace Hotel in Denver.

Friends from the political, business, academic and medical communities listened as Weeks called Sandoval a “humble pioneer” in CU’s fight to achieve better success and outcomes of this disease. Sandoval extolled support and strength to his family and friends throughout his medical ordeal, Weeks recounted, as he described some of the ups and downs of his patient’s treatment: the optimism of Sandoval when he began early on to respond to the drug therapy; and the subsequent disappointment when symptoms associated with the disease later developed and weakened the patient.

Marcy Benson listens as Bruce Benson talks about his friend Paul Sandoval. When Republican Benson ran for governor in 1994, Sandoval endorsed him and later supported Benson for the CU president’s position.

In his final weeks, Sandoval decided that he wanted to live out the rest of his life in a dignified way, to be with family and friends and let the disease take its course. “It takes courage to deal with this disease, to say my life is what it is and I’ll appreciate it for what it is,” Weeks recalled.

Francis Sandoval, left, married to Paul Sandoval’s brother Jerry, listens as her daughter, Rowena Alegria, communications director for Denver Mayor Hancock, chats with Gov. John Hickenlooper.

The scholarship established in his name will go to a graduate student at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, where Sandoval received treatment. Either one $20,000 or two $10,000 scholarships are expected to be awarded each academic year.

Wellington Webb holds up his name tag (as if anyone doesn’t already know the former Denver mayor) as he stands with CU President Bruce Benson at the reception to announce the scholarship.

With this new scholarship in place, Paula Sandoval told the gathering at the Brown Palace, the next generation of physicians and scientists will be able to continue their work combatting the disease. The recipient of the first scholarship, it was announced that evening, was going to a CU physician whose project targets the specific gene known to drive growth of pancreatic cancer cells. Her work would be directed towards developing therapy for that cancer.

Dr. Colin Weeks, Sandoval’s physician from the CU Medical School, with Marcy and Bruce Benson at the reception at the Brown Palace.

“When you hear about pancreatic cancer, it’s like a death sentence,” Paula Sandoval explained. “Usually you hear that you should get your affairs together. Survival level is in single digits,” she lamented.

As the family considered where Paul could get the best level of care, they came to the conclusion that the CU Cancer Center — which they called a “world class facility” in their home state — was the best choice. “It’s so important to support the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Center,” Paula implored.

“We wanted a scholarship in Paul’s name to carry on research to give people hope who are diagnosed in the future with pancreatic cancer,” Paula added.

Hickenlooper also talked about his late friend’s vast and formidable network of friends back in the day.

“This is really a very fitting way to honor Paul and fight this dreaded disease,” stated Bruce Benson, president of CU.

Denver Auditor Dennis Gallagher, Dawn Sulley, Larry Trujillo, and Gary Sulley listen as Gov. Hickenlooper shares stories about Paul Sandoval at the reception announcing the CU scholarship.

Gov. Hickenlooper and Paula Sandoval enjoy a casual moment at the reception to announce the scholarship in Paul Sandoval’s honor.

Fran Coleman, former state representative from Denver, and Nancy Burke, vice president of government and community affairs at the Apartment Association of Metro Denver.

Denver businesswoman Monica Garcia Robinson, CU President Bruce Benson, and communications consultant Wayne Trujillo pose for a photo.

A painting of the late Paul Sandoval is exhibited at the reception to raise funds for the CU Cancer Center scholarship which was established in his name.
