
California firefighters have largely subdued a swarm of blazes that gutted dozens of homes and forced evacuations of thousands of dwellings in and around San Diego, but Governor Jerry Brown said on Sunday the state was still bracing for its toughest fire season yet, according to the Associated Press.

Diminished winds and cooling temperatures over the weekend helped crews completely or mostly encircle nearly a dozen fires by Sunday that have charred at least 26,000 acres of drought-parched brush in San Diego County since the middle of last week, the AP reported.

Stoked by an unseasonable mix of triple-digit temperatures, extremely low humidity and hot, dry Santa Ana winds blowing in from the desert, the blazes highlighted what was already shaping up as one of the earliest and fiercest starts to California's wildfire season in decades, according to the AP.

Even before last week's conflagrations in San Diego County, more than 1,350 wildfires had erupted statewide since January, double the number tallied during the same period in 2013, said Mike Mohler, a spokesman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, the AP reported.

By Sunday, firefighters had managed to carve containment lines around 85 percent of the so-called Cocos fire, which last week destroyed 39 houses in the town of San Marcos, north of San Diego, according to the AP.

A smaller fire that raged in Carlsbad was 100 percent contained on Sunday after causing property losses estimated at up to $15 million, including eight houses and an 18-unit apartment building destroyed, the AP reported. Firefighters also were gaining an upper hand against three large blazes that burned across more than 20,000 acres of the sprawling Camp Pendleton Marine Base north of San Diego.

The origins of the blazes remained unknown, according to the AP. While arson investigators were looking for possible links between them, none of the fires has been ruled suspicious, fire officials said.

You have already subscribed. Thank you.
