
RENO, Nev. (MyNews4.com & KRNV) -- A quiet night has turned into a fairly calm morning that has allowed officials to get a more accurate mapping of the Hunter Falls fire damage.

The fire has now burned 728 acres, and is still about five-percent contained. More than 120 fire personnel are working to put out the flames. The crew battling the fire includes four hot shot crews, three helicopters and one lead plane.

The fire is still a few miles from any structures, deep in the wilderness with rough and steep terrain. Officials told News 4 that the cold over night and cooler morning temperatures worked to fire fighters advantage, and personnel will now plan to attack the fire more directly.

"Crews were able to establish a really good anchor point which is a good solid foundation where they know that fire is not going to get to and from their they are going to start branching out and going around to incircle this fire," said U.S. Forest Service Public Information Officer Brian Reublinger.

The US Forest Service is asking people to please avoid using the Hunter Creek trailhead until this fire gets knocked down.

RENO, Nev. (MyNews4.com & KRNV) -- At least 120 personnel are working on the fire that has now consumed 158 acres and is still only 5 percent contained.

About 100 personnel worked through the night in the struggle to contain the flames, according to PIO Brian Reublinger. Five crews, four of which are hot shot crews, three helicopters and one lead plane lead the attack to put out the fire. The cooler temperatures were on the fire fighter's side, allowing crews to tackle the fire more directly.

No homes have been threatened and the fire is still a few miles from any structures.

RENO, Nev (KRNV & MyNews4.com) - Sierra Front now reports 150 acres have burned in the Hunter Falls Fire. The containment is still 5%.

144 people are now fighting the fire using 4 helicopters, 5 hand crews and 3 engines.

The fire is primarily burning in the Mt. Rose Wilderness Area, moving Northeast in the Hunter Creek drainage.

Reno, Nev (KRNV & MyNews4.com) -The fire is currently inaccessible to engines due to road-less area. Due to the lack of accessibility, helicopters are doing bucket work and transporting crews for fire suppression. The fire is primarily burning in the Mt. Rose Wilderness Area, moving Northeast in the Hunter Creek drainage. There are approximately 100 personnel from multiple agencies including BLM, NDF, Truckee Meadows, Washoe County, North Lake Tahoe Fire Protection District battling the fire.

UPDATE-- According to Sierra Front, the Hunter-Falls fire is now 100 acres in size.

There are currently 70 personnel on scene, two helicopters, and three hand crews.

The fire is currently active on the western side and is heading towards Mt. Rose wilderness area.

No homes or structures are currently being threatened and there is no estimate of containment at this time.

UPDATE-- Bob Harmon with the Washoe County Sheriff's Department tells News 4, that the Michael D. Thompson Trailhead has been closed down due to the fire. Authorities are in the process of evacuting anyone that is currently on the trail.

The U.S. Forest Services have named the wildfire that began burning in the wilderness near Northwest Reno and Caughlin Ranch around 11:30 p.m. Saturday. The Hunter Falls Fire began is burning 15 to 20 acres and there is no threat to homes at this time, according to Brian Reublinger, Public Information Officer for USFS. He says the small fire grew about five acres in one hour.

Reublinger says the fire is in the upper 1/rd of the ridge with a north-west aspect. It is mainly ground fire.

The USFS have been dispatched to the remote location. One helicopter is performing a recon flight. The Black Mountain Hotshots are also enroute.

Stay tuned with News 4 as we will bring you the very latest details as they become available.

Reno, NV (KRNV & MYNEWS4.COM)--U.S. Forest Services tell News 4 that a wild fire has sparked near the Hunter Lake Trail area in Northwest Reno.

The size of the fire is unknown at this time but according to Brian Reublinger with the U.S. National Forest Services they have one personnel on the ground to figure out the size of the fire and have dispatched a recon flight that will be taking off from the Minden Dispatch station.

Black Mountain Hot Shots have also been called in to help contain the fire.

Stay tuned with News 4 as we will bring you the very latest details as they become available.

Whats up? Early this morning the winds were calm the fire was tiny, where were the helicopter buckets? We didn't anticipate this? This is a travesty. Why don't we have buckets ready for this before it becomes a major fire? In the business world you would be broke/gone and replaced if something like this happened. Disgusted.

the babbling blundering bloggers at Nv4 don't "get" details too good. Let's allow the guy to point out their dumb errors, and hope they don't 'graduate' to Dispatch or Court clerk.

Breckenridge, did you really create a second profile just to make it look like more than one person other than yourself really gave a flying F wether it was SW or NW Reno???  Man you must be lonely.

P.S. Caughlin Ranch is in SW Reno, below the Truckee River, for those of you at Ch. 4 who don't know!

The content has been reported and it will be reviewed by a moderator.

This site is hosted and managed by Inergize Digital .
