
Richard Winslow, 65, was just moments into his exciting birthday flight outside Boulder City on May 18, 2012 when the L-39 jet abruptly went down, killing him and its pilot. His widow is now seeking damages from Aviation Classics.

Facebook Sherri Winslow gifted her husband a ride in a Soviet-era military jet for what she believed would be a thrilling ride of a lifetime. Moments after take off, however, the jet crashed, killing everyone on board.

It was supposed to be an experience they'd share for a lifetime.

Instead one California widow says a $29,000 birthday gift to her husband of a "Top Gun dog-fighting experience" in a Soviet-era military jet robbed them of his life.

Sherri Winslow, who lost her beloved husband Richard in the freak plane crash two years ago in Nevada, has filed a lawsuit against Aviation Classics for his tragic death, Courthouse News reports.

KSNV The 65-year-old passenger was just moments into his exciting birthday flight outside Boulder City, Nev., on May 18, 2012 when the L-39 jet abruptly went down, killing him and its pilot.

The 65-year-old from Palm Desert was just moments into his exciting birthday flight outside Boulder City on May 18, 2012 when the L-39 jet abruptly went down, killing him and its pilot.

The horrific crash was witnessed by his wife and seven of his friends whom were also partaking in the thrilling aviation experience after the five-digit sum was paid by Winslow's friend, Sandy Young.

Paramount Pictures/AP The $29,000 birthday gift to Richard Winslow and seven of his friends was dubbed a"Top Gun dog-fighting experience," giving passengers the opportunity to ride in Soviet-era military jets.

"It is with a tragic heart that I tell you all that a lost my husband and best friend," the grieving widow posted on Facebook eight days later. "Please remember to give your best friend a hug and a kiss every day. I will cherish our last kiss for the rest of my life. Your friend Sherri."

Local reports at the time of the crash revealed that the man behind the doomed plane's controls, David Gillis, had once had his license removed for falsely certifying another pilot in 2009.

KSNV Sherri Winslow, who lost her beloved husband Richard in the freak plane crash two years ago in Nevada, has now filed a lawsuit against Aviation Classics for his tragic death,

One year later, that pilot, KGET TV 17 reported , was later blamed for a crash that killed him and another pilot.

In Winslow's lawsuit she seeks damages for negligence, pain and suffering, lost earnings and loss of consortium from Aviation Classics.

A request for comment from Winslow's attorney, Bill Bradley, and Aviation Classics, was not immediately returned.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
