
(CNN) -- Clashes near the northern Malian town of Kidal between government forces and Tuareg rebel armed groups have left eight Malian soldiers dead and 25 others injured, according to the country's Defense Ministry, the state-run newspaper, L'Essor National, reported Sunday.

There were also 28 dead and 62 wounded on the Tuareg side, the ministry said, according to L'Essor National.

The government issued a statement Saturday saying Tuareg rebels from the Azawad National Liberation Movement, joined by jihadists, attacked government buildings.

The Azawad National Liberation Movement -- known as the MNLA, the initials for its name in French -- is fighting for independence for the northern part of Mali, a region that it refers to as Azawad.

The MNLA issued a statement about the violence, describing it as self-defense and resistance.

The group claimed it took 30 prisoners, including 24 soldiers and three regional government officials. Two wounded Malian soldiers were handed over to the International Committee of the Red Cross, the MNLA added.

The United Nations Mission in Mali condemned the clashes and said they violated the preliminary accords designed to bring peace and security in the northern regions, including in Kidal.

An ISIS attack against the United States or Europe is a question of timing -- "not of inevitably, not of intent," says a former head of the CIA.

A young boy kicks off his vacation by dipping his toes in the ocean and makes a startling find.

Investigators now believe there are two masked ISIS fighters in the James Foley execution video -- one who made the speech and one who killed him.

Facebook has announced that they'll be cracking down on the sharing of "clickbait" content. CNN's Brian Stelter explains.

Michael Brown's family and friends ask for a day of silence and peace as they lay the teen to rest.

James Dawes: Evil is the strongest word we have to prepare ourselves to kill others.

Acclaimed actor-director Richard Attenborough has died at 90, the actor's agent said.

The Ebola outbreak causes fear and violence among the poor in Liberia. CNN's Isha Sesay reports.

Spooks have left their mark on a once-divided city still thought to be an espionage hotbed.

China's ancient capital of Nanjing has been the birthplace of many of the country's most intriguing traditional arts.
