
A Leon County grand jury indicted 18 year old Amber Ward on first degree murder and burglary charges Tuesday.

It stems from Isaac Grace's murder at the Econolodge off Monroe Street May 1st.

According to State Attorney Willie Meggs, Ward advertised sexual services on a website.

Grace then went to the Ward's motel room where he was shot and killed.

"We have evidence to tie her to the crime and tie her to the death of the individual that met her there at the hotel," Meggs said.

Court records show police tracked Ward by finding her cell phone.

It was found in a garbage can at a welcome center at the Florida-Alabama line.

Tallahassee, FL - Mobile, Alabama resident Amber Ward, has been charged with First Degree Homicide and Armed Robbery in the death of Isaac Grace.

According to TPD, officers responded to the Econolodge motel on North Monroe Street on May 1st around 7AM after witnesses reported hearing multiple gunshots.

Court documents say the phone number for the person who rented room 213 that night was tracked back to Mobile, Alabama. Several database checks revealed that the phone number provided at check in had been used to post ads for a female escort service on various social media websites... including "Backpage".

"I stayed at this Econologde last year and I felt uncomfortable and unsafe because there was a lot of mischief and activity going on, so I stayed inside", says Tallahassee Resident, Mike Biondo.

When Baldwin County investigators arrived at Ward's home, they found evidence that tied her with the crime inside a vehicle identified by the hotel's clerk.

"I believe there were the type of, same calliber of bullets that were used in the crime, and there was also clothing that would have been connected to Ms. Ward", says Officer David Northway, with TPD.

Northway says TPD cannot release any information on a motive at this time. According to arrest records, Ward was charged with solicitation of prostitution in Mobile, last September. He also says, without the help of authorities in Mobile, they may not have caught the suspect.

According to the court documents, the victim's cell phone was also tracked and after an investigation was found in a trash can at the welcome center on the Alabama-Florida line. Records show the phone had been used to call the suspect's mother 19 times after the shooting occurred.

Tallahassee, FL - 18-year-old Amber Ward has been charged with the murder of 29-year-old Isaac Grace in a North Monroe Street hotel room.

Witness told TPD that they heard multiple gunshots near the hotel room around 7am on May 1st. Witness were also able to identify the woman who had rented the hotel room.

The person who rented the room, later identified as Ward, had left her phone number and a Mobile, Alabama address. According to arrest papers, a search of this information returned postings for female escort ads on the website "BackPage". These postings matched the description of the woman who rented the hotel room.

According to arrest papers, Ward was located at her home in Mobile, Alabama. She stated that she drove to Tallahassee to meet people she met through the "BackPage" posting. She also said she left the room around 4am and traveled back to Mobile.

During an inspection of her vehicle, officers found 9mm casings. Arrest papers say that the casings match those found at the homicide scene.

Ward is charged with first degree homicide and armed robbery.

Tallahassee police patrol officers were called by the manager of the EconoLodge, located at 2681 North Monroe Street, on May 1st at approximately 9:00am, because one of the cleaning personnel found a broken window in room #213.  Once on scene, patrol officers were given access to the room and located a deceased male inside.  Patrol officers immediately called for investigators with TPD’s Homicide Unit and forensic technicians.  Investigators have classified the case as a homicide.

TPD’s Homicide Unit has assumed the investigation and are interviewing possible witnesses and pursuing all leads in this case.  Forensic Specialists are currently processing the evidence collected and are working with investigators to determine how the crime occurred.  Community members with information about this case are asked  to please call TPD at 606-5800 or the Big Bend Crime Stoppers at 574-TIPS.  Crime Stoppers does not want your name, just your information; and, you may be eligible for a cash reward.

A body discovered at a Tallahassee motel is being called a suspicious death by police.

Tallahassee Police found the body at the EconoLodge Motel at about 9 Thursday morning.

Police officers put up an orange screen to block off the view of room 213.

It proved to be unlucky for one person.

TPD officers found a dead body in the room.

"It's a lot different than what I'm used to," said motel guest Cindy Heafey. "We don't have things like this happen where I live in Lanark Village, Florida," she said.

EconoLodge Manager Dean Papapetrou tells us at 12:37 Thursday morning a guest checked into room 213 after presenting a state of Alabama ID.

About 8 hours later at 8:30, he says his housekeeper told him room 213 had a broken window.

When he went to look, Papapetrou says he found what looked like two bullet holes in the door indicating the shots had been fired from inside the room and an apparent bullet hole in the window.

He then called police.

When officers arrived at about 9 and the door was opened, Papapetrou says the body of who appeared to be a black woman in her 40s or 50s was on the floor near the door.

When asked if area residents should fear for their safetey TPD Spokesman Cleveland Allen said "No, if there was a concern for personal safety, we would put that information out."

Heafey, who's currently staying at the motel with her son while her husband has work in town, has no plans to find another place to stay.

"I don't think I have anything to worry about, ain't nobody want to hurt me," she said.

TPD has not released any information about the victim at this point including name, sex, age, race or if that person is the same one who checked into the motel.

The manager tells us there are surveillance cameras on the motel property.

And he says investigators were reviewing those recordings.

Tallahassee, FL - According to Officer Cleveland Allen, the Tallahassee Police Department is classifying this case as a suspicious death.

TPD says there is no reason to believe anyone in the area is in danger.

Tallahassee, FL - According to the General Manager of the Econo Lodge, a person was found dead inside a room on the second floor of the hotel.

A person reportedly checked into the room just before 1am Thursday morning.

Around 8:30 Thursday morning, the house keeper noticed a broken window in the room and notified the hotel's General Manager.

When the General Manager entered the room, he discovered gunshots through the door and window. He also found the occupant of the room dead, and called police.

We'll have more information on this story as it becomes available.

Tallahassee, FL - The Tallahassee Police Department is working a crime scene at the Econo Lodge at 2681 North Monroe Street in Tallahassee.

Several TPD forensic vehicles were on scene at the hotel.

Eyewitness News has a crew on the scene. We'll have updates as they become available.
