
SEBASTIAN — The party ended for a few dozen Sebastian River High School students when police broke up the get-together where some of them were drinking alcohol Sunday.

But a police spokesman said a night of underage drinking can lead to a worse conclusion for those involved.

"An adult may think they're providing a safe place for kids to drink, but they're exposing themselves to a great liability," Officer Steve Marcinik said. "They can't control what happens with the kids when they leave."

The party happened in the 600 block of Collins Street last weekend, according to the affidavit. A neighbor called 911 to complain about the noise from the home, which had attracted up to 30 partygoers, police said.

When officers arrived at the home about 1:30 a.m. Sunday, some of the teenagers ran away. Police found many bottles of beer and liquor at the home. The homeowner, 43-year-old Tonya Reed, was charged with holding an open house party, a second-degree misdemeanor offense, and booked at the Indian River County Jail. She was released after posting a $500 bond. When sentenced, she faces up to 60 days in jail and up to a $500 fine.

Patrol officers have been advised to keep an eye out for parties this month because of graduation festivities, Marcinik said.

After ending the party Sunday, officers kept about 15 teenagers at the home until their parents were contacted and told to pick them up, Marcinik said. No teens were arrested.

State lawmakers have been concerned about underage drinking and have set up Florida's Zero Tolerance law for drivers under 21 years old. They'll lose their license for six months if they're stopped by law enforcement and have a blood alcohol content of 0.02. That's a higher standard than the .08 limit for adult drivers. According to the Department of Motor Vehicles, the .02 limit restricts most young drivers to a single drink.

Ready to subscribe to TCPalm? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-710-6180.
