
SALT LAKE CITY — A group of snowboarders suing one of the last U.S. ski resorts to prohibit snowboarding are arguing in a court filing this week that the ban is not only discriminatory and based on stereotypes, but encourages "hostile and divisive skier-versus-snowboarder attitudes."

The snowboarders filed the lawsuit in January claiming discrimination on national forest lands that make up most of the Alta ski area in the mountains east of Salt Lake City.

The court battle has reignited a long-festering culture clash on the slopes between skiers and snowboarders.

Alta attorneys say the decision to promote a snowboarder-free experience to lure skiers is within the ski area's rights and violates no constitutional rights. They said in a motion in April that the lawsuit degrades the U.S. Constitution and should be thrown out.

Lawyers for the four snowboarders point out in the new motion that skiers and snowboarders coexist and thrive together at most resorts around the world, making Alta's ban irrational.

"This case is not about snowboards. Nor is it about skis. Indeed, it has little to do with equipment at all," attorneys for four snowboarders wrote. "At its heart, this case is about Alta and the government arbitrarily classifying groups of people based on animus and other stereotypes and excluding those considered undesirable from benefits freely enjoyed by all others without giving any rational justification."

Alta says skiers find the slopes more peaceful, safe and enjoyable because they don't have to worry about being hit by snowboarders whose sideways stance leaves them with a blind spot that can make their wide, sweeping turns a danger to others on the slopes. Skiers, in contrast, don't have any blind spots because the face forward as they speed down the slopes.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

welcome to the jungle, kids. your the new left outs.

Build your own hill.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
