
Two sisters were killed, and a child and another adult injured, in a crash in Fayette County Monday morning.

It happened at the intersection of U.S. 62 and Barger Road just before 10 a.m.

Family members say the sisters were there for each other through the good and the bad.

Carole Johnson, 53, had recently had a heart procedure and was unable to drive, so her sister, Mary Ellen Harris, 65, was taking her to a doctor's appointment.

That's where they were heading when the terrible crash happened. Investigators say the Ford Fusion driven by Harris pulled into the path of an oncoming pickup.

Both women died at the scene.

The sisters lived across the street from each other in the Highland County community of Greenfield.

Family members say they were inseparable.

"Two personalities were the same,” said Johnson’s son, Alex Ford. “They were both really stern, strict people but really loving at the same time. I couldn't ask for better morals than what I was given."

"As she got older in age, her personality changed,” said Cassandra Kelly, Harris’s daughter. “She was more laughter, more caring."

Kelly says Harris becoming a grandmother was one reason for that change.

"That was her world. And that's what made her smile every day- to know she got to see her grandbabies."

Heartbroken and stunned by the loss of two loved ones at once, their children say they will remember the women for their strength, their faith, and their dedication to their families.

"I will always remember my mom for never turning her back on me,” said Ford. “No matter what, she was always there for me. Always."

The driver of the other vehicle and the one-year-old female passenger in the truck were transported to the Highland District Hospital in Hillsboro. They were checked out but had no life-threatening injuries.

The child was in a child safety seat at the time of the crash.

Members of the Fayette County Sheriff’s Traffic Crash Reconstruction Unit are investigating the crash. The road was reopen by 2:30 p.m.

©2014 by 10TV.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

©Copyright 2014, WBNS-TV, Inc. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please      read our Privacy Policy, About Our Ads and Terms of Service. It is the policy of The Dispatch Broadcast      Group to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified individuals without regard to      their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, martial status, disability, military status,      citizenship or any other legally-protected status in accordance with applicable local, state and federal law.
