
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Attorney general says employees have constitutional right to work on campaign.

In the latest allegation, a former staffer says Attorney General Tom Horne’s campaign has been operating out of the AG’s office.

Horne has repeatedly said he's done nothing wrong and the allegations against him are untrue.

Last week, Horne's top aide Garrett Archer resigned; a spokeswoman said the resignation was unrelated to the allegations.

Horne is confident voters will return him to office; some political experts are doubtful.

Mary Lou Taylor was a staunch supporter of Tom Horne for years.

A Republican since Ronald Reagan inhabited the White House, the retired teacher agreed with Horne's politics and policies. Her vote in 2010 helped elect the former lawmaker and  Arizona  schools superintendent to his first term as the state's top cop.

Then came the scandals. The FBI investigated Horne for alleged campaign-finance violations. He was implicated in a hit-and-run fender bender in a parking garage while  with his suspected girlfriend.  Now, a former staffer has accused him and his top aides of illegally working on his re-election campaign on the taxpayers' dime.

"If he's using his office to promote his campaign, it's definitely wrong," said Taylor, 75, echoing many fellow Republican voters. "And when I found out he was running around on his wife ... If you're going to do your wife that way, I don't trust you. I won't be voting for him."

Horne, once a  shoo-in for re-election, is in an unusual position for an incumbent in statewide office: For the first time in more than a decade, political observers say, a candidate running to stay in one of the top five statewide offices could lose.

A former aide to Attorney General Tom Horne says she spoke out about staffers campaigning on work time because she was "sick to my stomach" over what she saw in Horne's office. Sarah Beattie is telling her story exclusively on "Sunday Square Off."

Even Horne's own campaign has privately acknowledged as much, according to internal campaign documents included in a complaint.

The last time an incumbent lost was in 2002, when Horne defeated state Superintendent of Public Instruction Jaime Molera, a Republican.

The mounting allegations that Horne ran a quasi-campaign headquarters out of the Attorney General's Office and news that Yavapai County Attorney Sheila Polk will press forward with a separate campaign-finance case against him add to his vulnerability, political observers say, even though Horne has  maintained he's done nothing wrong.

The controversies are expected to linger through November and have narrowed Horne's path to victory, observers say, giving Republican voters a reason to seriously consider voting for his primary challenger Mark Brnovich  or Democratic opponent Felecia Rotellini.

Fred Solop, a professor of politics and international affairs at Northern Arizona University, said the problems plaguing Horne are "very serious concerns from the voters' point of view." Horne may prevail in the primary because of low turnout, primary voters' tendency to be more ideological,  and the power of incumbency, he said. But Horne's candidacy becomes weaker  in the general election, where there is a broader voting base.

"He is injured by this, and he clearly has an uphill battle to prevail in the upcoming election," Solop said, adding the new revelations from the former staffer make it impossible for him to put the "appearance of scandal behind him."

Horne has maintained he's done nothing illegal, nothing unethical and nothing wrong. He calls his accusers and those who represent them "hacks," saying they are motivated by politics and self-interest.

As he seeks a second term as attorney general, he emphasizes his experience in the office and keeps his message focused on his priorities. Despite his problems, he says, he will continue to do his job, "fight the Obama administration's liberal activist policies, prosecute drug cartels and stand up for Arizona" — talking points that play well with Republican voters. He says his campaign has more than $400,000 to spend.

In a statement to The Arizona Republic, Horne, 69, said he is "confident the voters will choose the candidate who has experience and proven results." He stated voters should have faith in him because he has "led from the front" by personally defending Arizona's laws and arguing cases before various courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court.

Horne noted that in 2010 he defeated Rotellini,  whom he criticizes as "No Trials Rotellini," and says she has "no achievements."

"I have a long history of serving the people of Arizona," Horne wrote. "This nonsense and baseless charges will not dissuade me from doing my job."

Horne said  the allegation leveled last week by ex-staffer Sarah Beattie — that he and his staff have illegally worked on his re-election campaign on the taxpayers' dime —  isn't true. Her "bitterness apparently stems from the fact that she was expected to work eight hours on legitimate state business," he said.

Campaign-related records included in Beattie's complaint show a campaign in disarray, some political observers say.

As of March 27,  even Horne's own campaign had serious doubts about his prospects for re-election, according to the documents.

Campaign-meeting minutes from that day put Horne's chances to win at "40% AS IS." The campaign's first priority was to "Win Court case," referring to Polk's case against Horne, followed by  "get s--t  together."  Other tasks were to "raise money," "run ideological race," and "RAGA," a reference to the Republican Attorneys General Association, a national organization that helps elect Republicans.

The minutes noted the campaign needed a "forceful" manager to keep volunteers on task and hold everyone accountable for scheduling, polling, restoring confidence and improving morale. The agenda highlighted how Horne would position himself as "running against Obama's choice for AG." At the same time, he would characterize Rotellini as "Obama's AG" who is partisan and supportive of "open borders."

The agenda said Horne may garner endorsements from U.S. Reps. David Schweikert and Matt Salmon "if they see the campaign coming together." Salmon's chief of staff told The Republic, "Salmon has no intention of endorsing Horne."

Other documents included in Beattie's complaint show Horne more focused on the competition to his left — Rotellini — than the threat to his right. "Highly confidential" talking points on Rotellini aim to paint her as a "fraud," a "completely incompetent administrator," who will "say anything." The memo says, "She cannot disagree with anyone without calling him a liar."

The strategy appears to revisit Horne's 2010 attacks on Rotellini.

"It shows a campaign in disarray — it's like the gang that can't shoot straight," Democratic political strategist Bob Grossfeld said. "They want to re-litigate the last campaign."

But campaign consultants such as Brian Murray, who assisted the independent campaign in 2010 that landed Horne before a judge this year, say Horne's focus on running an ideological campaign is smart.

"If you run that kind of race in this election year, you have a chance of winning," said Murray, a political-messaging expert. "I don't think it's going to be easy, but I still think there's a pathway."

That path won't include voters like Rob Witt,  52, of Camp Verde. The real-estate agent voted for Horne four years ago because he was the "lesser of two evils" relative to Rotellini.

He said he has been disappointed. "He did not represent ... what I think is best for our community," Witt said, adding that he plans to vote for Brnovich in the primary election.

Horne's opponents say that sort of sentiment will ultimately unseat him. Rotellini's campaign is confident it will have the money, message and momentum to win, while Brnovich's campaign hopes Horne's base has eroded enough for Brnovich to win the primary.

Republican consultant Wes Gullett said Horne's chances of winning are dwindling, even though 2014 is expected to be favorable for the GOP.

"The drumbeat has got to be very debilitating to the campaign," Gullett said. "It has a negative impact on fundraising, a negative impact on the infrastructure of the campaign.

"It is a very steep and delicate climb, and there's probably only one little path to victory," he added. "You want an open field you can march right across, and you don't want to have to climb the Matterhorn."
