
600 Raintree Boulevard, Cañon City, deputy out on an eviction.

210 Broadway, Wells Fargo Bank, Penrose, deputies responded to a bank robbery. One armed suspect fled the scene before deputies arrived. At 4:45 p.m., suspect Tyler Matthew Schnapp, 19, was arrested after a deputy spotted his vehicle on U.S. 50 in Cañon City. Florence PD and Cañon City PD assisted in the arrest and investigation.

Williamsburg, deputy contacted a resident regarding an ongoing neighbor dispute.

Colo. 115, Brookside, report of over 30 goats in the road. Goats fled the scene before deputy arrived.

Poplar Avenue, Cañon City, Anthony Goyett, 43, arrested on a warrant.

Flora Drive, Cañon City, reporting party reported that about one week ago, someone was ringing her doorbell at 4 a.m. Reporting party wanted the deputy to be aware of the incident.

L Street, Penrose, reporting party believed she heard someone outside her residence. Deputies checked the area with nothing found.

I Street, Penrose, deputies contacted several subjects regarding a threats complaint. Reporting party did not wish to pursue charges.

Colo. 115/Mackenzie, Cañon City, reporting party called to advise that a subject wearing a mask and dressed in black ran across the highway and into a building. Deputies checked the area with negative contact.

Fourth/Main, Cañon City, deputies out with CCPD officers on a report of a disorderly party.

U.S. 50, Cañon City, reporting party requested assistance in retrieving her husband from his girlfriend's residence. Deputy advised the parties to work it out, as the husband wouldn't come out until the wife left the area.

1700 block poplar, Cañon City, reporting party requested a civil stand by to retrieve property.

Colo. 115/Cyanide, Florence, deputy out with an elderly man who had wandered away from the home care center.

1500 block Chestnut, Cañon City, reporting party complained that the neighbor's cat had been leaving presents in her yard. Deputy said he would contact the neighbor and warn the cat.

CR 120, Penrose, reporting party reported that one of her cows had possibly been shot. Deputy and brand inspector responded. There is no foul play suspected.

Colo. 115/Brookside, Cañon City, deputy contacted a reported DUI driver. Party had just woken up and was warned on his driving.

Fifth Street, Penrose, report of criminal mischief to vehicles.

Glenmoor Road, Cañon City, reporting party reported that his son had forged checks on his account. Deputy will follow up.

McCandless Avenue, Florence, deputy out with Florence PD on a physical disturbance.

Fourth Street, Penrose, deputy out contacting the owner of a horse that appeared to be neglected.

900 block Washington Street, Cañon City, reporting party reported his bicycle was stolen. Cody Stephens, 18, was taken into custody for theft and 3rd degree criminal trespass.

11th Street, Penrose, deputies out looking for Most Wanted Justin Rien. No contact.

U.S. 50, Cañon City, deputies out on a noise complaint.

Natalie Street, Cañon City, report of two aggressive dogs. Deputy responded and the dogs were impounded.

West Second Street, Florence, reporting party called to report that someone stole her dog, but she had located it. Dog was returned to the reporting party.

U.S. 50, Royal Gorge Stables, Cañon City, medical assist for a party who fell off a horse.

Brush Hollow, Penrose, reporting party stated that someone hit his truck with a hammer while he was fishing.

Cedar Avenue, Cañon City, deputy contacted the reporting party regarding harassing phone calls.

3200 block Crawford, Cañon City, deputy took a report on a theft of gaming systems from reporting party's residence.

U.S. 50/Colo. 115, Penrose, deputy stopped a reported intoxicated driver but the party checked OK.

Greenwood Avenue, Cañon City, deputy out with CCPD on a report of a possible prowler.

CR 67 MM 9, Penrose, deputies responded to a report of an underage party. Multiple subjects were contacted. Parents were notified and two juveniles were transported to Florence PD where they were released to parents.

Colo. 67/Cedar, Florence, report of a 22-year-old female walking in the middle of the road, trying to kill herself. Deputy and a Florence officer responded and contacted the intoxicated female. Party was not suicidal and was given a ride home after medical checked her.

Midland, Florence, deputy mediated a dispute between neighbors over a barking dog.

Rockvale, reporting party requested a welfare check on his son. Contact made and the boy was OK.

1600 block Chestnut, Cañon City, deputy assisted the reporting party in recovering some items stolen by an acquaintance.

Cotopaxi, reporting party reported that someone was cutting trees on his property.

Second/Petroleum, Florence, assist Florence PD with a traffic stop/arrest.

Third/E Street, Penrose, several parties were issued summons for disorderly conduct.

South Canon, deputies checked several areas for a suicidal subject who was finally located and transported for evaluation.

500 block I Street, Penrose, deputy worked on resolving a dispute between neighbors.

Short Street, Cañon City, deputies attempted to locate a runaway from El Paso County. No contact.

CR 13A, Florence, report of a dog chasing kids on bikes.

East Front, Florence, assist to a Florence officer while he found an owner for a wandering goat.

Poplar Avenue, Cañon City, deputy out on a harassing phone calls complaint.
