
He said he wasn't outrageously courageous - just lived by a code of 'planned recklessness'

Eddie Rickenbacker had been in command of 94th Squadron of the US Air Corps just a day when, flying a lone sortie over France early one morning in September 1918, he spotted a flight of five German Fokker fighters escorting a pair of two-seater reconnaissance planes.

It was seven against one but those were the kind of odds he craved. Already a world-famous motor racing ace, he hadn't wasted much time in establishing himself as a fighter ace too when the US belatedly entered the First World War.

Climbing high between the enemy and the sun, Rickenbacker suddenly slammed his Spad fighter into a steep dive, tearing into the unsuspecting enemy formation.

Courage: Rickenbacker said his exceptional bravery was down to his 'planned recklessness'

A long burst of machine gun fire dispatched one of the Fokkers and, exploiting the German confusion as they headed back over their lines, he finally managed to get in between the two reconnaissance planes - flying just 50 ft apart. He sent one of them down in flames, too, before heading for home and breakfast.

They were his eight and ninth kills but by the time the war ended just 48 days later, he had taken his tally up to 26 - more than any US fighter pilot in the war - as his squadron took on the multi-coloured fighters in the dreaded 'flying circus' of Baron Manfred von Richtofen, alias The Red Baron.

'Just been promoted to command of 94th Squadron,' Rickenbacker - who had replaced the 'h' in his name to 'k' to 'take the Hun out of it' had written just hours earlier. 'I shall never ask any pilot to go on a mission that I won't go on.'

Clearly, he meant it. Whether they could have stomached the sort of missions he took on is another matter. He had a phrase for his outrageous courage - 'planned recklessness', he called it.

Daredevil is an overused word nowadays but it really doesn't quite do justice to Rickenbacker, a man who dazzled America time and again with his grit and courage. As revealed in a new biography - Enduring Courage, Ace Pilot Eddie Rickenbacker and the Dawn of the Age of Speed by John F Ross - Rickenbacker spent his life overcoming enormous odds, first  behind the wheel of early, lethally dangerous racing cars and then at the controls of equally hazardous First World War fighters.

And even that wasn't the end of his derring-do. Even years later, aged 52, he was to stun his country again when he saves the lives of a downed bomber crew as they struggled to for 24 days to survive in the waters off the Pacific.

Then after, the war he became the pioneering head of one of America's first airlines, again playing the hero when one of his own planes ran into trouble. For a country emerging as the world's superpower, Rickenbacker was exactly the sort of homegrown hero it needed.

Skill: Racing in those early years of motoring was desperately dangerous work and by 1916, he was earning $80,000 a year. But he said: 'You didn't win races because you had more  guts. You won because you knew how to take the turns  and baby your engine. It wasn't all just shut your eyes and grit your  teeth'

Needless to say his rise to fame and fortune was entirely his own doing. The self-made son of Swiss parents who had settled in Columbus, Ohio, Rickenbacker - was 12 when his father died and he had to leave school and get a job. Before that he had been a wild child, the leader of the 'Horsehead Gang' who had started smoking at five.

A serious accident with a cart and the fact he was now the breadwinner of the family put him on the straight and narrow. He became a brilliant car mechanic. And he got a job with a local car manufacturer who advertised his cars by racing them.

For six years, Rickenbacker travelled the US, racing cars one day and selling them the next, earning the nickname 'Fast Eddie'.

Aged 22, he became a full time racing driver, setting a world record of 134 miles an hour in a Blitzen Benz at Daytona Beach, Florida. Racing in those early years of motoring was desperately dangerous work and by 1916, he was earning $80,000 a year.

In 1917, he visited Britain to buy motors for a racing team. British officials were suspicious of his German name and he was interrogated by police officers as soon as he landed in Liverpool.

Accusing him of being one of the Kaiser's spies, they presented him with a thick dossier of 'evidence'. 'The whole thing was so ludicrous that, instead of getting mad, I treated it as a joke,' he recalled. He was less amused when he was strip-searched and had lemon juice rubbed into his skin to bring out any messages written in invisible ink.

He eventually convinced his captors he was innocent but, when US entered the war while he was in London, he rushed home to get involved. After failing to convince the US government to set up a flying squadron composed of former racing drivers, he enlisted in the signals and became the chauffeur of General Pershing.

Soon transferred to the Air Corps and was trained as a pilot by the French. His fellow pilots in the 94th Squadron resented his motoring fame and the fact that, unlike them, he was not from the gentleman class.

But the oily mechanic from hard-scrabble Columbus, Ohio, soon proved himself in the air.  He earned his first kill in april 1918 while on patrol with his squadron commander, capt James Hall, who later co-wrote Mutiny On The Bounty.

Diving his Nieuport plane (the French had given the inexperienced Americans their inferior cast-off fighters), Rickenbacker waited until he was just 150 yards away from his target, a German Albatross plane,  before opening fire with devastating effect. Rickenbacker, said his comrades, was never a fancy flyer but he was a ferocious one.

The following month, Rickenbacker - then 27, which was old for a pilot - miraculously managed to avoid death after he went after three German fighters. He downed one of them but, as the other two chased him, one of his wings gave out and his plane went into an uncontrolled tailspin.

Few pilots wore parachutes in those days and Rickenbacker wasn't one of them. He resigned himself to death, as did the German pilots who flew off, convinced he was finished. Needless to say, he wasn't. Just a couple of hundred feet from the ground, Rickenbacker increased his plane's speed, providing just enough lift to free it from the spin. He hobbled home, throwing up behind the barracks as soon as he landed.

The end of the war didn't bring an end to Rickenbacker's daring exploits. He was a hero for all seasons. Back in civilian life, he was treated like a star although he turned down various offers to appears in movies.

Now moving in celebrity circles, he ended up marrying the beautiful socialite Adelaide Frost, recently divorced from the son of the founder of General Motors. They adopted two sons and remained together until Rickenbacker's death five decades later.

Rickenbacker initially went back to his first love - cars - founding the Rickenbacker Motoring Company in 1920. But its innovation of putting brakes on all four wheels rather than just two was fought bitterly by other car makers and the firm went bust seven years later, plunging its founder into huge debt. He bought the Indianapolis Motor Speedway but closed it in 1941, judging that racing cars was a terrible waste of fuel with war looming.

But his most successful business venture was the airline, Eastern, which he launched in the 1930s. The redoubtable businessman was credited as the first to prove that airlines could be made profitable and didn't need government subsidies.

It was the early days of passenger air travel and safety could never be guaranteed. Rickenbacker - who preferred to be called Captain Eddie - said he never liked to claim his airline was safe, he preferred the less definite word 'reliable'.

In 1941, he was travelling on an Eastern Air Lines flight when it crashed just outside Atlanta, Georgia. The heroism gene kicked in once more. Despite being gravely wounded himself and pinned down by the wreckage, he remained conscious for nine hours until help arrived, lifting the spirits of others trapped with him.

When he got to hospital, his injuries - including several broken ribs, a fractured skull, crushed hip socket, shattered elbow and pelvic bone, and a left eyeball blown from its socket - were so terrible that a priest prepared to administer the last rites.

What religion was he, the priest inquired of a nurse. 'A god-damned Protestant, like most people,' shouted the 'corpse'.  He survived, although one leg remained shorter than the other for the rest of his life.

When the US entered the Second World War, Rickenbacker - now in his 50s - was a civilian but inevitably a very gung-ho one. He toured military bases in the US and Britain, calling on Americans to support the war effort and suggesting military improvements.

In October 1942, came his last and surely most dramatic brush with death. Asked by the US government to inspect airbases in the South Pacific, Rickenbacker was being transported in an ageing Flying Fortress B-17 bomber when it was forced to ditch in a remote area of the sea.

For the next 24 days, Rickenbacker, then 52, took command, cajoling and inspiring the other seven passengers and crew to stay alive as they clung to three small rubber rafts. The food - four oranges - ran out after just three days but on the eighth day, a seagull landed on Rickenbacker's head.

He managed to grab and they divided it into equal parts, using the intestines for fishing bait. It finally rained the same evening as the bird arrived.

After they were finally spotted by a plane when close to death, other survivors agreed that - brutal and bullying as he had been to any of them he had regarded as whining or undermining the group's morale - without his iron will they would undoubtedly have perished.

'Lord, how they learned to hate that man,' said a fellow survivor. 'There were times when they would have gladly thrown him into the sea, granted the strength.' Rickenbacker saw it differently: 'I raged at them until they found reason, in the midst of their suffering, to live.'

He certainly had his critics. Rickenbacker was accused of sometimes exaggerating his heroism at the expense of others. The perpetual grin he wore concealed a man who was remote and arrogant - he had few friends who even came close to saying they really knew him.

But throughout his life, Rickenbacker had no time for the foolhardy. 'No mere thrill seeker or arrogant fatalist - men fitting those descriptions died around him in droves', Rickenbacker took an 'exceptionally business-like approach to risk,' writes John Ross. He was a 'true rarity - a thoughtful man of action who conceived of the next task before him much as a mathematician sees an equation'.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
