
Cpl. William Kyle Carpenter doesn’t remember much about the day he and a fellow Marine were caught in the blast of a hand grenade in southern Afghanistan while manning a rooftop security post. There was almost no time to react before the explosion tore into him in a searing, angry ball of white light.

Carpenter recalls that he “got right with God” as he was enveloped by the sensation of warm water pouring all over him. It was his own blood.

Remarkably, Carpenter did survive, despite horrific wounds. Just as remarkable is how he sustained them — by throwing himself on the grenade in an attempt to save his friend and fellow Marine, Lance Cpl. Nick Eufrazio, from harm.

On Monday, the White House announced that it would award Carpenter, 24, with the Medal of Honor for his actions, making him the second living Marine to receive the nation’s highest award for valor in combat since the Vietnam War. Fourteen other U.S. service members have received the Medal of Honor for actions in Iraq or Afghanistan.

Carpenter’s bravery on Nov. 21, 2010, has been celebrated for years by fellow Marines, but it was never clear that he would receive the Medal of Honor. Pentagon rules require “proof beyond a reasonable doubt” for the award — tricky, given the circumstances of Carpenter’s case. The infantryman, then a lance corporal, has never been able to recall what happened in the moments immediately before the explosion. The only other eyewitness, Eufrazio, of Plymouth, Mass., sustained brain damage, which prevented him from speaking.

Still, the Marines who scrambled to the blast site to save Carpenter and Eufrazio have insisted for years that there was no doubt about what happened. They said they found the grenade’s blast seat — the point of detonation — underneath Carpenter, citing it as key evidence that he sought to smother the explosion. That, coupled with an exhaustive investigation, led the military to bestow its highest honor on Carpenter. The news that the award was approved was first reported in March by the independent Marine Corps Times.

e-mails.

Carpenter barely made it to that day. The blast had destroyed most of his teeth, collapsed his right lung, fractured some of his fingers and caused massive trauma to his right arm. His jaw had been nearly ripped off. He was a longtime patient at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., and underwent about 40 surgeries.

In an interview with The Washington Post, Carpenter said he used to be frustrated that he could not remember much about that day but has grown to accept it and is thankful to be alive.

Still, it’s difficult for him to comprehend wearing the Medal of Honor.

Despite the discomfort, Carpenter said he’s pleased that the award will allow him to bring attention to the service of others wounded or killed in Afghanistan. Among them is Lance Cpl. Dakota Huse, a member of Carpenter’s platoon who was killed by an improvised explosive device less than two weeks before the explosion that wounded Carpenter.

Carpenter was a full-time patient at Walter Reed until last July, and he has since medically retired and moved on to attend the University of South Carolina. He drove 30 minutes home from college to take a phone call, surrounded by his family, from President Obama formally notifying him that he would receive the award, he said.

The conversation was short but sweet, Carpenter said. The president told him that bestowing the Medal of Honor is one of his greatest pleasures as commander in chief and asked him what it was like being a University of South Carolina Gamecock.

Carpenter credited the Marines in his unit — 2nd Battalion, 9th Marines, of Camp Lejeune, N.C. — for saving his life and helping him recover. Many of them will be invited to the White House when he receives his award.

Dan Lamothe covers national security for The Washington Post and anchors its military blog, Checkpoint.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
