
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

BALTIMORE – Trainer Art Sherman said Sunday morning that he believes Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner California Chrome will win the June 7 Belmont Stakes to become racing's first Triple Crown winner in 36 years.

But that's assuming California Chrome runs, which obviously is the intention and plan after the Derby winner beat Ride On Curlin by 1 1/2 lengths Saturday at Pimlico in the 139th Preakness Stakes.

However, upon learning Sunday morning from Daily Racing Form reporters that New York has not been letting thoroughbreds compete wearing nasal strips, Sherman said that co-owner Perry Martin might not want to run without the self-adhesive strip designed to improve airflow.

"Now, that's going to be interesting," said Sherman, who said he'll take up the issue with New York officials. "This guy Perry Martin, he might not run if they say you can't run with a nasal strip. He's very funny about things like that. The horse has been on a six-race winning streak with a nasal strip. I don't know why they'd ban you from wearing one, but we'll have to cross that bridge when we get there."

When asked if Martin really might withhold the horse from the Triple Crown finale, Sherman said, "It would be very questionable. He could say, 'Hey, I don't understand why they won't let me (use it). Maybe they don't want us there.'… We'll see what happens. Horses all over California wear them all the time."

Virtually all other racing jurisdictions allow use of the strips, which are similar to those worn by some human athletes, including jockeys. Nasal strips for horses came on the scene about 15 years ago, with 1999 Breeders' Cup Classic winner Cat Thief among the first high-profile users.

The nasal strip edict in New York is not a state or New York Racing Association rule, but has been left up to the discretion of the stewards, who in at least recent years have not given permission for such use. Two years ago, the Belmont Park stewards said that Triple Crown hopeful I'll Have Another could not wear one. That colt was scratched the day before the Belmont with a career-ending injury.

However, there is a new steward representing the New York regulators, with Stephen Lewandowski replacing the retired Carmine Donofrio.

A spokesman for the New York State Gaming Commission said in a statement that neither the commission nor the NYRA stewards have received a request to use nasal strips in the Belmont.

"If a request to use nasal strips is made, the decision on whether to permit them or not will be fully evaluated and determined by the Stewards," the statement said. "This is in accordance with the Commission's Thoroughbred Rule 4033.8, which states: 'Only equipment specifically approved by the stewards shall be worn or carried by a jockey or a horse in a race.'"

Sherman said Perry Martin suggested trying Flair Equine Nasal Strips on California Chrome after the colt finished sixth in Santa Anita's Golden State Juvenile. He is unbeaten in six races since, a streak that also coincides with jockey Victor Espinoza getting the mount.

"He thinks it's really beneficial," Sherman said of Martin and the nasal strips. "Whatever it is, he's been winning with it on. All over the country they let you wear them. Why would New York not?"

He added with a laugh, "Perry Martin might say, 'Well, if I can't, I guess I'll go to the (July 5) Los Alamitos Derby.' That's a half-million. He's nominated. Orange County might be a little overcrowded that day."
