
Meanwhile, pastor Navana Winston is working to negotiate a cease fire.

Shots were fired in the roadway in the 400 block of Merrill Street at 1:44 a.m. Sunday morning. During the shooting incident, the home of Jajuan Logan’s mother, Sonia Marshall, was struck with at least three bullets passing through the exterior wall of the home, according to information provided by Beloit Police Deputy Chief Tom Dunkin and Capt. Dan Risse.

Police said there also was a report of shots fired at Highland Avenue and Eighth Street at 9:56 p.m. Sunday, near the same address as where Holloway was shot and killed on April 25.

No one was injured during the weekend shots fired incidents.

After Holloway was shot on April 25, Jajuan D. Logan, 20, of the 400 block of Merrill Street, was charged with one count of party to the crime of first degree intentional homicide and felony possession of a firearm. An arrest warrant also has been issued for Angelo Young, 31, of Beloit, for party to the crime of first degree intentional homicide. Young has not been located.

The weekend shots fired incidents are just the latest in the series of violent actions involving two opposing groups of young men who share relatives in Beloit, located on both the west and east sides of the city.

Both before and after the April 25 homicide there have been YouTube messages threatening violence against those associated with Raymond Holloway. Since the shooting there has been a fight at Beloit Memorial High School and Rock County Sheriff’s Department deputies have had to help maintain order at Logan’s courthouse appearances.

Pastor Winston, who has been reaching out to the family and friends on both sides of the conflict, said she has invited both Raymond Holloway’s mother Milisha Holloway and Jajuan Logan’s mother Sonia Marshall and other family members to a prayer rally tentatively set for Tuesday, June 3 at 6 p.m. at Central Christian Church. She hopes the gathering will help bring about a truce to end the gun violence.

The event will include prayer and an open microphone where those who are grieving can talk about their pain and grief. There will also be moments for private talks in hopes of brokering peace.

“People are grieving. One mother lost her son to prison, and another mother lost her son forever,” Winston said.

Winston said a long standing conflict between the two factions has resulted in extreme tension and retaliation. She said ending the animosity is critical before school gets out for the summer, when kids will have extra time on their hands.

She said both sides are carrying extreme pain and hurt which needs to be addressed for any healing to occur. She’s inviting those in the community to get involved to rally around the families.

Winston said she invited those in the public and other pastors to consider getting involved in the reconciliation process and helping her form a group for African American young men to give them a place to go where they feel comfortable talking about the challenges they are facing, how to avoid getting swept up in violence and to make positive decisions.

For more information, people can call Winston at 608-346-6917.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

FaceTheFacts posted at 4:58 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
