
A student at Natchitoches Central High School is in a Shreveport hospital Monday afternoon suffering from fight-related life-threatening injuries.

Police have now charged a man in conjunction with the murder of a woman found inside her burning home Monday morning in Vivian.

Chris McCauley, 45, has been charged with second degree murder and aggravated arson after his sister, Carmen McCauley, 50, was found dead in her bed by firefighters after the blaze had been extinguished. She had been shot multiple times, police said.

The two lived together at the home at 620 Jackson Street where the crime happened, police said. They had been living together for several months, taking care of their mother, who recently died.

Shuntay McCauley, the victim's daughter, said her mother's birthday would have been May 25.

"I was told my uncle shot my mother," she said. "To die at the hand of your own brother, your family that's supposed to love you.

"And we just lost my grandmother and it's supposed to be a time to come together. It's one tragedy that we hadn't even gotten over yet."

A Caddo Parish Sheriff's Office spokesperson told KSLA News 12 that they were looking for Chris McCauley in connection with the incident around 8:30 a.m. Less than 30 minutes later, there was word of an arrest.

McCauley was found by a member of the U.S. Marshal's Task Force, found him walking down East Washington Street near Youree Drive in Shreveport.

Police said they got a tip from a family member shortly after 3 a.m. that there was smoke coming from the home, but they were unable to get inside because the doors were locked.

Chris McCauley is being held at Caddo Correctional Center. Bond has not been set.

Stay with KSLA News 12 for updates on this story as they become available.

Copyright 2014 KSLA . All rights reserved.

Maud, Texas community members held a baby shower Sunday for the Seals family, who recently added five more to their fold.

Rod Nylund is ready to start doing work on the home he just purchased, but he was shocked to find the house occupied and the locks changed.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KSLA. All Rights Reserved.
