
The historic market town of Cowbridge came to a standstill today for the funeral of 33-year-old army helicopter pilot Capt Thomas Clarke who died in Afghanistan last month.

Hundreds of people lined Cowbridge High Street for the funeral at the town's ancient Holy Cross church.

Capt Clarke, from Cowbridge, was killed along with four others in April, including Lieutenant Corporal Oliver Thomas from Brecon.

The helicopter came down in Kandahar Province, 30kms from the border with Pakistan.

Preceded by four police motorcyclists and two on horseback, the funeral cortege moved slowly down the High Street to the church for a service led by the Reverend David Bolt who described Capt Clarke as someone who "made a big impact on everyone's life".

Standing in the crowd, 81-year-old James Brown, a friend of Capt Clarke's grandparents said: "It is a very sad day.

Physiotherapist Lucinda Davis, who was also standing in the crowd lining the streets, said: "It gives you faith in humanity. It is wonderful how everybody is so quiet and peaceful. It is what community spirit is all about."

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
