
Seattle's First Woman Chief? Mayor Ed Murray will announce his pick to run the Seattle Police Department at a 10 a.m. press conference today in City Hall. I'll be there with Ansel, reporting on Slog. The buzz I'm hearing? Murray will go with Kathleen O’Toole, a renowned former Boston police commissioner whose career also includes cleaning up policing in Ireland and working in the private sector on security. This profile by Steve Miletich in the Seattle Times shows that O'Toole is a bona fide bad-ass . Other candidates include California's Robert Lehner and Arizona's Frank Milstead . The nominee will require the city council's confirmation. In 2012, the US Department of Justice found that the SPD was wrong in the head and a federal court settlement requires officials to get themselves right.

Paging Kelly O, Ya: " Yoopers " is officially a word.

Speaking of Michigan: It's one of four states where regulators are recalling 1.8 billion pounds of beef that may be tainted with E. coli.

Five Chinese military officers were indicted by the U.S. today and charged with hacking U.S. companies to steal industry secrets about nuclear and solar power in what one official called "21st century burglary." It's the first time ever that the U.S. government has formally accused another nation of using the internet to break into U.S. businesses and the indictment could carry enormous diplomatic implications.

If Working-Class People Can Afford to Live in the City, Then There Will Be Poors Everywhere! The city council will hold a hearing on microhousing—the small apartments that have shared kitchens and therefore make neighborhood "activists" and blog commenters throw irrational tantrums about how other people are supposed to live—tonight at 5:30 p.m. to consider new regulations on size, scale, parking, and reviews.

Dept. of Hilarious Tragedy: " A multimillion-dollar yacht capsized overnight near Anacortes , dumping six people in the water. All were rescued by Good Samaritans and local police and fire crews. Witnesses said the 90-foot yacht flipped as it was being launched at about 9 p.m. Sunday."

How to Make Bike Lanes Better: Turtle bumps, oblong bumps, and a dozen others .

Stitches, ladies and gentlemen.

Kathleen O'Toole's mentor is BIll Bratton? And you think she is going to "positively" reform the SPD? Do you have any idea who Bill Bratton is? The dude invetned stop and frisk. He has been labeled a racist by activists and non-activists alike throughout the country. When Oakland tried to hire him as a consultant thousands of people interrupted city hearings for days. If she is anything like her mentor god save anyone who isn't a white yuppie.

Heard Stitches was 18. Fuckin' Miami.

If snitches really do get Stitches, no wonder nobody is talking to the cops.

The yacht sank Eli. That's not hilarious. Perhaps to class warfare types it is, but it's a loss of a beautiful vessel. Let's hope they can raise it.

I'd pay good money to watch Stitches and Riff Raff murder each other.

The bicycle infographic has an odd idea of "asthetics". I wonder how they ranked everything.

FWIW, it isn't really funny since the builder is on the hook and either has insurance or makes enough building these things that he can eat the loss.  There's no real comeuppance or anything required for real comedy.

@6 Nobody has ever thought of this!

OK, so the Feds, or feebs, say that members of the Chinese military hacked into American corporations to steal trade secrets.

Expect more stories like this from FBI director, James Comey, another neocon of neocons the neocon Obama Administration has appointed.  Comey's background reads like a who's who of terrorism:  at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, that law firm which successfully represented Reagan during Iran/Contra, Bush during Bush v. Gore, Citizens United during Citizens United v. the Federal Elections Commission, was a director at the major drug money laundering gang, HSBC Holdings, and of course, was another former Bush Administration stooge, the fave kind of person Obama always appoints!

The last war in Asia was the Sino-Vietnamese War of 1978, when the Sovs placed nukes on Vietnam's border with China, and the Chinese invaded and while the war is sometimes said to have been won by Vietnam, China succeeded in convincing them to remove said nukes.

CNN has been having a field day covering the firing of an associate editor at The New York Times --- interestingly, they could provide much more first-hand coverage if they reported on their firing (CNN's, that is) of Amber Lyon, a former CNN reporter who attempted to actually report what was really going on in Bahrain awhile back.

What A Jackhole ! ! !

Ah, "working people."  That is precisely what apodment advocates want, isn't it?  The working poor.

Poor and have children?  Find somewhere else to live.  Poor and sick?  Poor and elderly?  No housing in the city for you!

But if you're young, able-bodied, and childless, then heck yes, we'll be happy to build dormitories for you, and charge you only 60% of your wages in rent!

@6: they make sure each truck has an extra 11 feet of hose, and they only hire firemen who can step up 6 inches and aren't too wide to fit between the bollards.

They should have given a rating for safety to cyclists. Some of those options like the bumps and linear barriers look like they'd be a danger if you have to swerve into them.

@19 There is a rating regarding 'protection'.

It, too, is suspect as it gives a maximum rating to both Jersey Barriers (those short, portable walls) and Raised Lane.  No way raised lane is as protective as the Jersey.

Is the thing about stealing technology from Chinese firms a joke? I don't get it.

Music and SIFF, Music and SIFF, that's all The Stranger is these days.

@16 Wait until we have City Council representation by district.  You'll have all the NIMBY circus you want.
