
ARIZONA STRIP – One teenager was killed and three other young men injured when the jeep they were in rolled on Bureau of Land Management Road 1069 in Mohave County, Arizona, approximately 30 miles south of St. George, Utah, late Saturday night.

At about 11:45 p.m. MST Saturday, (12:45 a.m. Sunday MDT – Utah), Mohave County Sheriff’s deputies responded to the accident scene via a call that came through St. George Police Department. Deputies found the Jeep Wrangler had left the roadway and rolled.

The rear-seated passenger, Brooks Johnson, 18, of Santa Clara, Utah, was unrestrained and was ejected from the vehicle.  He was pronounced deceased at the scene.

The driver, Connor Livingston, 20, of Ivins, along with passengers Brayden Oaks, 18, of Washington, Utah, and Jace William Graft, 20, of Ivins Utah, suffered injuries and were transported by ambulance to Dixie Regional Medical Center in St. George.

Washington County Sheriff’s Office and St. George Police also responded with assistance.

Speed was found to be a contributing factor in the rollover, Mohave County Sheriff’s Office spokeswoman Patricia Carter said. Alcohol does not appear to be a factor.

An autopsy is pending and this accident remains under investigation.

This report is based on preliminary information derived from law enforcement or emergency responders and may not contain the full scope of findings.

Copyright St. George News, StGeorgeUtah.com Inc., 2014, all rights reserved.

Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter you email below to start!

Joyce Kuzmanic serves as Editor-in-Chief of St. George News, contributing since its inception in 2010. She is a thinker, a freelance writer, editor and private business owner.  Joyce had a long career as a paralegal in real estate, business and tax law.  She enjoys hospitality and adventuring the great outdoors.  She currently resides in St. George with her husband and her creatures, Toby The Wonder Dog and Scratch.

What a tragedy.    Whatever the speed the driver was going it was obviously too fast for conditions.

Speeding was a factor as was no seatbelt.  Alcohol not considered a factor.  Imagine, if someone did have alcohol, the whole community would be coming down on that, not the fact they were speeding and not wearing a seatbelt.

Let’s not be too hard on this situation. Like many others, I am very lucky to have lived through my teenage years driving all the dirt roads in this county at all times of the night and not wearing a seat belt.  We drove too fast and took way too many chances. Many times the difference from a close call or a tragedy was just a few seconds or a few millimeters. This will weigh heavy on the other 3 boys “forever” .  Cut them some slack. We all wish it didn’t happen.

The kid that died was in my school. He would’ve graduated this coming Tuesday. I didn’t know him, but I have to defend that they were just stupid kids doing what stupid kids do and having fun. Do I think he should’ve been wearing a seatbelt? Absolutely. Do I think the driver could’ve taken it easy? Of course; however, I know they weren’t drinking. I also know that there should be a little more compassion from people who decide to ridicule instead of wish support to the family suffering from this accident. I hope they get that peace… and not from people commenting on the St. George News, but the people who are standing beside them to carry them.

Very sad. It’s unfortunate but the other three young men will bear the weight of this for the rest of their lives. Hopefully, they can use the experience to save lives in the future by sharing the story to influence others about the responsibility that comes with driving a vehicle–that it has the potential to be a deadly weapon when used negligently (whether intentional or not).

Well said!

From what I’ve been told by someone who had a son in this accident, the roads were washboard-like and rough.  They were only going about 15 MPH, which proved to be fatal.

Teens going 15mph in a Jeep on dirt and gravel road?  Hard to believe.  Just saying.

It is a sad situation.  But one that could have been avoided with the use of seat belts.  Like Zeke, I have survived some similar situations when I was young and dumb.  And it was just by the grace of God.

Our prayers go out to all involved. What a tragedy that this young man passed away. Such a sweet, loving family, so full of heartache at this time. Sending our prayers and condolences. Our hearts are broken for your great loss.

From my extensive back road experience a jeep can tip at 15-25 mph if it hits something but it can not roll over one or more times throwing people all over.  So sorry of the family that lost their son.

I rolled a pickup truck on a washboard gravel road once.  Had I been going 15 mph, it would not have happened.

Yes, that what I said, it’s not gonna roll and toss people out at such a low speed.

So sad I am praying for you Johnson family.

This is a tragic event. I listened to it on my police scanner I would like to commend all law enforcement and rescue personnel involved. This was in an area of no cell coverage and units from multiple agencies had a difficult time even finding the exact area where the accident occurred. Whoever reported the accident stated that there was a fatality, so getting there faster would have had no impact on that, but the agencies launched a well coordinated rescue effort.

Recently I had been on this road in my Toyota 4Runner.  I would guess I was traveling about 30 mph when I hit a washboard area.  The rear end of my vehicle immediately slid to one side leaving me not much time to react.  The next weekend I was out again, this time with my teenage sons. I was explaining the dangers of a washboard areas and the dangers involved. Not 5 minutes later at about 20mph I hit a short area of washboard that bounced us a bit sideways. I was in broad daylight and could see the road, and still had a few issues.  Its easy for me to imagine at night hitting that and sliding off the road or rolling off a bank.  I would also state the obvious  -I have never known of an accident where speed wasn’t a factor.

To all the boys involved in this tragic event my heart goes out to you. I’m hoping the family of the Johnson boy will have peace and you boys will be at peace too. Who could have guessed it was going to happen.

What a tragic accident my heart goes out too all those involved as well as the family members.

A drive out past the accident was revealing.  The area around it was well maintained and smooth.

This is a terribly sad incident for our community, and I hope all of our children and young adults learn to be vigilant and careful and that every action impacts others. To the driver of the jeep, this will haunt you forever young man, as it will the rest of the boys involved, best to remember try to think about doing good, somehow turn this negative into a positive that it dosen’t ever happen to someone else.Have positive thoughts, as those negative thoughts are going to overcome you. Share your stories, remember those who mourn will be comforted. May God be with Brook’s family.

Really Boyd.
