
The National Security Agency (NSA) has been secretly monitoring, recording and stockpiling virtually every conversation made on a cellphone in the Bahamas, according to new documents from Edward Snowden.

The top-secret SOMALGET program, revealed in a report by The Intercept on Monday, was reportedly carried out without the knowledge of the local government. Instead, the agency worked with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to sneak into the country’s cellular network and record “full-take audio” of every mobile call in the nation of 370,000 people and kept it for up to a month.

In another document, the NSA called the island nation program a “test bed for system deployments, capabilities, and improvements,” an indication that officials had planned to export it to other nations.

By listening to all mobile calls in the country, the NSA was able to listen to the conversations of the 5 million to 6 million American tourists who visit the Caribbean island each year. That includes Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Oprah Winfrey and Nicolas Cage, who all reportedly own vacation spots in the tropical getaway destination.

“The overt purpose is for legitimate commercial services for the [telecommunications companies] themselves; our cover mission is the provision of [signals intelligence],” the NSA said in one description about the broader program, called MYSTIC.

Neither the NSA nor the DEA immediately responded to inquiries from The Hill with a comment about the report.

The Intercept report comes after similar allegations in The Washington Post earlier this year.

From Hillicon Valley Team the overnight email is a round-up of the day's top technology stories delivered every weekday morning.

Obama's vacation ends The president returns to Washington after a vacation plagued by criticism.

Fears mount of ISIS infiltrating... Some lawmakers worry a visa program has created a major security weakness.

House Republicans hire legal... A contract with Baker Hostetler sets a cap of $350,000 for legal costs.

Sharpton blasts police at Brown... Rev. Al Sharpton said it was "time to deal with policing."
