
NASHVILLE, Tenn. - One of the two suspects charged with the kidnapping and murder of Holly Bobo has spoken out for the first time out in an exclusive interview.

Jason Autry sat down with reporter Nick Beres via a video uplink from Riverbend Maximum Security Prison where he said he's being held in segregation for his own safety.

"I'm a drug addict and a thief, but I'm not a killer," said Autry, who insisted he has charged with a crime he did not commit.

He said he has no idea what happened to Bobo.

"I don't want to speculate and make a rumor of what happened to the girl," Autry said.

The 20-year-old nursing student disappeared from her family's home in Decatur County in April 2011. The case made national headlines, but the investigation went nowhere for years. Then in March of this year, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation suddenly announced the arrest of 29-year-old Zach Adams followed by the arrest of 39-year-old Autry.  Both have been charged with kidnapping and murder.

Investigators said a key witness -- thought to be Zach Adams' younger brother Dylan -- reported seeing Bobo alive in Zach's home after she disappeared and that she was there with Zach and Autry.

Autry said Dylan, who is in jail on gun charges, lied to investigators.

"He's been lying his way all this time. You know he got himself in a little trouble and he's down there in Obion County and he don't want to do his time and he's making stuff up to get out of it," Autry stated.

Autry said Dylan can't stand his brother.

"They hate each other's guts and that's a way to get back at him," added Autry, who said he and Zach are friends.

"Me and Zach go back several years you know. On and off," said Autry. "He'd come around. Me and him smoked, drank a little bit, did some dope and hung out together. Zach didn't have a whole lot of friends."

Autrey conceded he and Zach had several run-ins with the law over the years. And, Autry said while he was serving time on one arrest in 2012 TBI agents paid him the first of many visits to press him on the Bobo case.

"It was a try to be a forced move to get me to be a false witness against Zach Adams," said Autry.

But Autry said he told the TBI he knew nothing -- no link between Adams and Bobo. If he did, Autry insisted he would have taken the TBI up on their offer of reduced jail time and the reward money.

"I would have taken five years and $280,000 for my freedom. If I knew, I would tell them,"  Autry concluded.

Long wonders if the TBI has anything other than an informant's word as evidence against his client. No body has been recovered in the Bobo case.

"I think first you have to prove there is a killer and that she is dead," said Long.

Autry said whatever happened to Holly Bobo, he was not involved.

"I want to let them know they have an innocent man right here," said Autry.

The TBI declined to comment about what Autry has said about the investigation.

This site uses Facebook comments to make it easier for you to contribute.       If you see a comment you would like to flag for spam or abuse,       click the "x" in the upper right of it. By posting,       you agree to our Terms of Use .
