
IMPHAL: Defeated BJP candidate for Manipur Outer parliamentary constituency Prof Gangmumei Kamei has strongly resented to the statement of outgoing Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio who said, "Congress has not defeated us, Nagas have defeated us."  It also worth noting that Nagaland Chief Minister designate TR Zeliang had said before leaving Kohima for New Delhi that there were three Naga candidates in Manipur Outer Lok Sabha constituency which had divided the Nagas' votes in Manipur.

Soso Lorho of the NPF, Prof Gangmumei Kamei of the BJP and Mani Charenamei (Independent) were the Naga candidates in Manipur Outer seat in the just concluded Lok Sabha poll.

Prof Gangmumei Kamei said the allegation of Neiphiu Rio, the outgoing Chief Minister of Nagaland is the most deplorable and contemptuous.

"It is widely known that NSCN (IM) armed cadres captured more than 120 polling stations on behalf of the NPF candidate Soso Lorho in the Naga dominated districts. However, they failed to collect enough votes to ensure the victory of the NPF candidate. Failure of NPF in this election is due to the failure of NSCN (IM) cadres to completely control polling in the constituency. Rio should not blame Prof. Gangmumei Kamei nor Mani Charenamei for the defeat of NPF, rather he should blame his mentor in the underground set up for his failure to capture the votes for his party," stated the BJP leaders.

Kamei  mentioned the “detention” of Dr Khasim Ruivah, a former minister and senior BJP leader by the NSCN (IM) at Ukhrul and who was subsequently under house arrest at his village of Somdal during the polls. “PA Theko, the chief election agent of the BJP candidate was kidnapped and interrogated in an unknown place in Senapati district. The NSCN (IM) cadres forcibly destroyed the BJP office in Ukhrul. They detained several workers including women leaders. Several BJP workers were beaten up in Phungyar constituency and Chandel town. We brought these illegal activities of the NSCN (IM) to the notice of Election Commission of India and Government of Manipur,” he alleged.  He then alleged that the election result clearly shows that the dictate of Rio and the NPF has not been accepted by the Nagas of Manipur. The people of Manipur irrespective of party affiliation should remain very alert of this dangerous party and their leaders.

Prof Gangmumei Kamei then said the election result has shown that the ideology and objectives of the BJP are acceptable both to the people of the hills and plains of Manipur.

In the press meet Dr Khasim Ruivah, former minister and senior leader of BJP, PA Thekho, chief election agent of outer BJP candidate and inner BJP candidate Dr.R.K. Ranjan were also present.
