
SARATOGA SPRINGS – When flames tore through an apartment building on Sherman Ave. in Glens Falls this month, the American Red Cross sent a team of volunteers.

Pat Arno, 85, a registered nurse and retired grandmother, was one of them. She worked a series of 11-hour shifts, helping the fire victims.

"I'm a Red Cross nurse forever and ever," Arno said in a sit-down interview with NewsChannel 13 on Sunday. "I'm very proud of that."

Arno was born in Manhattan. Her father, Peter Arno, was a famed cartoonist at New Yorker Magazine. Her mother, Lois, was the fashion editor.

As a young woman, Arno owned an art agency in Saratoga Springs, where she now resides. Then, in her late fifties, she decided to enroll in nursing school.

"They tried to kick me out more than once because they said, 'You'll never be able to work at your age,'" she said. "My biology teacher said, 'Don't you dare quit. You're good. You'll be OK.'"

Arno stuck with nursing, graduated, and went on to work for what is now Saratoga Family Health. She began volunteering for the Red Cross about 25 years ago, and she has helped countless people.

Arno assisted the victims of the tornado that swept through Mechanicville and Stillwater in 1998. Later that year, she traveled to Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane George.

She has been to disaster areas all over the country – Louisiana, Tennessee, Texas – assessing medical needs and providing first aid, medication, food, clothing, and shelter to people in need.

"You get home after two weeks and you think, 'Oh God, I'll never do this again,'" Arno said. "And in another few days, you say, 'Oh, when is the next one? You know, I want to go.'"

The Red Cross has taken notice. Gary Ferris, executive director of the Adirondack-Saratoga Chapter, said Arno is one of their best and most active volunteers.

"She's very thorough, very meticulous, and very compassionate," Ferris said, noting how Arno often places follow-up calls to disaster victims. "She's absolutely marvelous when she deals with clients."

For her part, Arno said Ferris, Michel Lee, Dr. Kathleen Braico, Michelle Cravetz, James Haggerty, Colleen James, Eric Utermark, Barbara Viele, and the rest of her colleagues deserve equal credit.

And, as she prepares to turn 86 this September, this humble mother of two and grandmother of one is not changing anything. Arno said she intends to keep volunteering.

"As long as I can get around, and they’re not embarrassed by me," Arno said with a laugh. "Thank God, I am pretty healthy, so I'll just keep on, keep on keeping on."
