
Posted May 19, 2014, at 6:23 a.m.

WOLFEBORO, New Hampshire — By Sunday, the furor had begun to calm.

Few of those out and about in the bustling town center of this lakefront hideaway were thinking about Robert Copeland as they cast fishing rods and licked ice cream cones on a beautiful day when the wind carried the fresh scent of spring through the downtown air.

This quiet New England getaway community has been thrust into the national spotlight as Copeland, the 82-year-old head of the town’s three-member police commission, battles to keep his job after being overheard in public referring to President Obama using the N-word.

Among the few full-time Wolfeboro residents out in the town square Sunday, disgust toward Copeland’s comments was apparent.

For now, even if briefly, this 6,000-resident town in the heart of central New Hampshire finds itself on the front lines of a nation’s never-ending battle with the issue of race.

The firestorm erupted this month when Jane O’Toole, who moved to Wolfeboro about four months ago, overheard Copeland loudly describing Obama using the slur while sitting in a town restaurant.

Upon discovering that he was an elected official, O’Toole formally complained to the town manager and other members of the police commission.

Copeland has remained defiant, sitting with crossed arms Thursday as more than 100 residents showed up for a public meeting to discuss the incident. Many angrily called for his resignation.

No one answered the door at Copeland’s home when a Washington Post reporter knocked Sunday afternoon.

The three-member police commission, an elected body charged with the hiring of the town’s police force, plans to meet sometime this week, but it is unclear whether Copeland will be asked to step down as calls for his resignation or firing continue to mount.

“Comments like these, especially coming from a public official, are not only inexcusable but also terribly, unfortunately, reflects poorly on our town,” O’Toole said during the town meeting, according to the Associated Press, which reported that her remarks were met with resounding applause.

Several town officials noted that, because the police commission is independently elected, the town Board of Selectmen and town manager have no power to remove Copeland from office.

Just days before Memorial Day weekend, the small town — tucked high in New Hampshire’s Lakes Region — was bustling with out-of-towners from throughout the Northeast. Many of them said they were unaware of Copeland’s comments.

“I hadn’t heard anything about that, but that guy sounds terrible,” a middle-aged father from New York said as he shepherded his two young sons into a gray SUV after an afternoon of boating.

The main stretch of the small, largely white lake town abounds with locally owned cafes, delis and ice cream shops, and it sees its population boom each spring and summer as people flock to its lakefront properties.

“Wolfeboro. America’s first resort town,” declares the sign that marks your arrival on Main Street, which connects the weaving series of side streets that constitute the small hamlet.

The outrage over Copeland’s comments is just the latest on a long list of racial incidents and outbursts that have perhaps come to color Obama’s years in office.

In the six years that he has occupied the White House, the first black president has presided over a nation locked in near-constant racial dialogue, often spurred by events such as the Trayvon Martin and Jordan Davis shootings, or historic anniversaries, such as the 50th anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech and the 60th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Brown v. Board of Education decision.

Krosnick said that studies conducted during Obama’s presidency have found that as many as 50 percent of white Americans openly express anti-black sentiments during in-person surveys. He added that the Obama presidency has led to an increase in outward expressions of racism — as well as an increased sensitivity by many other white Americans.
