
Imphal, May 19 2014 : "Battle of Torbung ", a fierce battle fought during 2nd World War was recalled during a commemoration function at Tollen Village, Torbung in Churachnadpur District today.

The commemorative event was attended by two surviving 2nd World War veterans from Manipur namely Kaikhai Kuki (92 years) of 1st Assam Regiment and Kaijakap Kuki (91 years) of 2nd Assam Regiment as Special Guests.

The event was organised as a part of the three-month long observation of the 70th Anniversary of the Battle of Imphal WW-II by the Manipur Tourism Forum and 2nd World War Imphal Campaign Foundation.

In the commemoration function, Lienlal Khongsai, Village Chief Tollen Village and Arambam Angamba, co-convenor of organizing committee also attended as chief guest and president, respectively.

Speakers at the function stressed on the significance of organizing such commemorative events.

It may be noted here that during the retreat of the 17th Division towards the plains of Imphal along Tiddim road, the Japanese forces managed to erect roadblock at certain locations.

MS 34 at Torbung was one of them where fierce battle was fought to dominate the route.

48th Allied Infantry brigade was called in from Sugnu area to counter the road block at this MS 34.Ultimately, the Allied Force succeeded in destroying the road block and proceeded towards Imphal plains.

The two surviving war veterans also narrated about their personal accounts of the battles they took part in various places of Burma (Myanmar) .

Kaikhai mentioned that he was trained in Calcutta (Kolkata) and from Madras (Chennai) he was transported to Burma as the retreating Japanese soldiers were fighting with the Allied.

Rajeshwor Yumnam, Secretary of the Organising Committee informed that the Commemoration of the 70th Anniversary of Battle of Imphal was inaugurated on March 23, 2014 and would be concluded on June 28, 2014 .

But before that, the organising committee would be hosting similar commemorative events including observance at Red Hill (Maibam Lokpa Ching) on May 29, commemoration of Battle of Motbung on June 7, Lift of Imphal Siege/Milstone 109 on June 22, Battle of Bishnupur on June 12 and Silchar Track on June 25 .

* This news is as published by respected news daily at Imphal, whose name is duly marked as 'Source'.  E-Pao.net is not responsible for it's sanctity & originality.

* Comments posted by users in this discussion thread and other parts of this site are opinions of the individuals posting them (whose user ID is displayed alongside) and not the views of e-pao.net. We strongly recommend that users exercise responsibility, sensitivity and caution over language while writing your opinions which will be seen and read by other users. Please read a complete Guideline on using comments on this website.
