
For Caitlin Lasher, the annual Relay for Life fundraiser at Oyster River High School took on new meaning this year.

Her mother, Raelene, was diagnosed with Stage 1 lung cancer on August 1.

Raelene Lasher, 50, walked hand-in-hand with her daughter to begin the Relay for Life fundraiser to benefit the American Cancer Society in the high school gymnasium Saturday. Eighty-four students signed up for the event, which was open to only those in the high school. Participants walked laps from 2 p.m. to midnight in the Oyster River High School gymnasium. When the school gets its new track in the future, the event — weather permitting — will likely be held outside.

Other students had cancer affect their lives, while others were willing help out their friends and community.

The generosity of the students and faculty at the school was not lost on the Lashers.

Lasher underwent surgery last Oct. 9, when her lung cancer was upgraded to Stage IIIA. She said she went through seven weeks of radiation treatment and four cycles of chemotherapy. The outcome won't be known until a CT scan is performed in July.

She was especially proud of her daughter, who has gotten more involved in community projects, she said.

The fundraiser also hit home for Ryan Kerrigan, a senior at the school.

Kerrigan's mother, Kathy, was diagnosed with breast cancer when he was in sixth grade, he said.

Money raised at the Relay for Life and similar fundraisers in the area generally stays in the same area, said Tara Dickey, American Cancer Society Relay Specialist.

Each participant in the relay had to raise $100. Previous fundraisers brought the total raised to more than $9,000 for the American Cancer Society, according to Erika Ireland, a junior and student coordinator for the event. Although the total isn't finalized, this year's fundraising has already eclipsed last year's mark of $8,500, she said.

Support from students and faculty came as no surprise for principal Todd Allen.

Roughly 11 percent of the student body participated in Saturday's event, according to Susan Wilkinson, the school's community service advisor. The goal for next year is for 25 percent participation, she said.
