
You will be redirected to the page you want to view in  seconds.

Swear in downtown Brighton near the Imagination Station playground, and there’s a good chance you’ll be getting a ticket.

Colin Andersen learned this lesson the hard way.

The 19-year-old Brighton resident was hanging out with his friends on a sunny April day in a parking lot next to the pavilion and Imagination Station; Andersen said he swore under his breath and no children heard him.

However, a Brighton Police Department officer heard him and issued him a ticket for disorderly conduct.

Brighton Police Chief Tom Wightman said it’s OK for teenagers to hang out downtown, and the city doesn’t have a law prohibiting certain words.

Wightman said the playground is popular, especially with families and young children. Sometimes, police are called due to teenagers or young adults acting disorderly.

“That’s what gets on our radar, their behavior,” he said.

Andersen said this was the first ticket he’s ever received; he said he doesn’t even have a speeding ticket.

Andersen fought the ticket but lost when he went before a Livingston County District Court magistrate to present his side of what happened. He was fined $200.

Andersen said he doesn’t think it was right to issue him a ticket without a warning. If he had been warned, he would have listened to the officer.

“I would have respected his authority,” he said.

At the hearing, Andersen said the police testified they had given him a warning, something he denies happened.

Andersen said children were not close by, and he wasn’t loud when he said the profanity.

“That would require an officer with some incredible hearing,” Wightman said.

Andersen said he argued with the officer because he didn’t understand why he and his friends were told to leave the downtown area.

“We just like to hang out,” he said, adding the downtown is convenient because it’s a central place.

He also figured expressing his opinion was allowed in this country.

However, he admitted his parents suggested a different approach.

“It’s a bad idea to argue with cops,” he recalled them telling him.

Jim Totten is a reporter for the Daily Press & Argus.

Swear in downtown Brighton near the Imagination Station playground, and there's a good chance you'll be getting a ticket.

A link to this page will be included in your message.

Copyright © 2014 www.freep.com. All rights reserved.
