
Voter turnout remained anemic on Monday, with 4,969 voters turning in their ballots as today’s primary election loomed.

Anyone wishing to boost that tally will have to turn in their ballots at one of Lane County’s 22 dropbox sites or at the Lane County Elections office at 275 W. 10th Ave. in Eugene. It’s too late to mail in a ballot.

Monday’s turnout pushed the cumulative total to 42,080 ballots, or just 20.9 percent of Lane County’s 201,375 registered voters.

Voters have until 8 p.m. today to turn in their ballots.

Ballots have been trickling in to the county since May 5. The highest single-day tally so far was May 6, with 8,073 ballots. The lowest was 1,029 on May 15. Election Day is typically one of the higher-volume days for turning in ballots.

Big local races or issues on the ballot include Lane County commissioner contests in East Lane, West Lane and Springfield, plus school bond measures in the Pleasant Hill and Fern Ridge school districts. Money measures in neighboring Linn County include a bond measure to finance a new fire station in Harrisburg.

Registered Republicans get to pick among a slate of six candidates for Oregon governor. The winner will face Demo­cratic Gov. John Kitz­haber in November.

Republicans also get to choose either Portland surgeon Monica Wehby or state Rep. Jason Conger of Bend to battle incumbent Democratic U.S. Sen. Jeff Merkley in November. In south Lane County, GOP voters will choose between Gary Williams and Cedric Hayden Jr. for the Oregon House seat that represents south Lane County and north Douglas County.

Election results will be released by the county starting at 8 p.m. today and updated through the evening as the latest ballot submittals are processed. Comprehensive election results will be available at www.register​guard.com .

During the past several days, the county has been processing ballots as voters have turned them in. The cumulative data are kept under wraps until 8 p.m., then released.

Amazon Pool, 2600 Hilyard St.

Juvenile Justice Center, 2727 Martin Luther King Blvd.

Cottage Grove Community Center,

700 E. Gibbs Ave.

City of Florence, 900 Greenwood St.

Junction City library, 726 Greenwood St.

City of Lowell, 107 E. Third St.

Oakridge Police Department, 76435 Ash St.

City of Veneta, 88184 Eighth St.

Pioneering Oregon wineries build new-wave visitor centers with impressive, intimate, immersive tasting and learning opportunities.
