
Vicksburg native Lucy H. Koh's fingerprints are on your Gmail account, your smartphone, and, if you're a Silicon Valley engineer, possibly your prospects for changing jobs.

Koh, the California federal judge overseeing the three-year patent battle between Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., has so far thwarted the iPhone maker's bid to keep Galaxy phones off the market.

Now, after a jury found early this month that both companies infringed patents, the firms are poised to take new runs at persuading Koh to order sales bans on the other.

Koh also has made a mark presiding over privacy suits against Google, LinkedIn and Yahoo! In March, she blasted Google's privacy policy as vague and possibly misleading. Not long after, Google changed its terms.

Koh's ascent to influence in Silicon Valley has been swift. The 45-year-old daughter of Korean immigrants was nominated to the federal bench by President Barack Obama in 2010, making her one of the youngest appointees among more than 600 active federal judges and the first Korean-American U.S. district court judge.

Decades after the dawn of the Internet — and 20 years into the age of the Web and e-commerce — Koh is attempting to reconcile wiretap laws written in the landline-phone era with users' concerns about how companies use the troves of data generated when people send e-mails and surf online. No other judge has broken so much ground, lawyers and scholars say.

"She's more on the hot seat on questions of Internet technology and business models, and their impact on consumer privacy, than any other judge in the U.S. today," said Tracy Beth Mitrano, director of the Internet Culture, Policy and Law Program at Cornell University.

If luck is the residue of design, there is little accidental about Koh's journey to the bench. Koh progressed quickly from Vicksburg, the Mississippi town where she worked in her father's wig shop, to undergraduate and law-school degrees at Harvard University.

At Harvard, she organized rallies to push the school to hire minorities and women as professors. The interest stemmed from her experience growing up as the only Asian-American in all-black, all-white and integrated towns and cities in Mississippi and Oklahoma, according to an article she wrote in a 1995-96 law-school publication.

In 2000, at the technology boom's peak, she left Los Angeles — where she had served for three years as a federal prosecutor — and relocated to Silicon Valley.

The move brought her closer to her grandparents, and to a cradle of technology. Working at two law firms, she represented local companies and focused on intellectual property.

With more than 350 civil and criminal cases on her docket at times, Koh has shown little patience for lawyers who pile on paperwork. Amid a smartphone technology trial in 2012, she told Bill Lee, a lawyer representing Apple, that he should know better than to submit 75 pages about witnesses who weren't testifying — "unless you're smoking crack."

"We're wasting the jury's time because you all are being unreasonable," she said.

The crack comment, which she and Lee joked about in court the next day, lightened a proceeding in which Koh has been watched for how she has applied legal theories to a patent battle with big implications for sales.

In Apple's first U.S. patent-infringement suit against Samsung, filed in 2011, Koh rejected Apple's requests to ban sales of Samsung's phones — even after the iPhone maker won a jury verdict finding that Samsung had infringed six of its patents.

The legal basis for her decision, Koh explained, was that Apple failed to draw a close enough connection between Samsung's infringement of patented features, and the sales Cupertino, California-based Apple claimed it had lost.

An appeals court said Koh had set the bar too high and urged her to reconsider. Koh held her ground. In March 2014, she again said Apple hadn't shown enough evidence to win a sales ban.

While many of the phones in question have already been phased out, Apple has said that Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung has sold tens of millions of Galaxy phones that use similar technology. Apple and Samsung are the world's top two smartphone vendors, according to the International Data Corp., which expects global shipments to reach 1.2 billion smartphones this year, from 1 billion last year.

Koh showed a preference for preserving commerce over curbing the public's choice of devices, said Brian Love, a law professor at Santa Clara University. Taking a phone off the market for infringement of what may be relatively minor features would represent a "gross mismatch between the patent owner's award and its actual contribution to society," he said.

Ready to subscribe to The Commercial Appeal? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-789-0831.
