
"Water Cooler" Chatter Matters -- I can't even put a number on how many times I found out about a potential showstopper for an upcoming mission while talking with someone (often a low-ranking someone) waiting in the chow line or getting a drink of water. "How are things?" would occasionally elicit a response like "Eh, sir, we're having some delays getting cargo loaded," that needed my attention.  For junior personnel to feel comfortable bringing these issues up relies on them having trust and confidence in you.

Seek Out Superior, Peer, and Subordinate Mentors -- If you don't have at least one mentor who is a peer, one who is a superior, and one who is a subordinate, you won't be getting the full picture you need.  Ideally, you'll have at least one mentor not in your chain of command who can serve as a sounding board.

Think About All Stakeholders and Make Sure They're at the Table When Decisions Are Being Made -- At all levels, make sure that every stakeholder is represented at the table.  We ran into many situations where our unit, which had been tasked with supporting an operation, had not been included in the planning process. "Well, the plan requires your convoys to travel at 25 mph to meet the Required Delivery Date."  Nobody making the plan was aware that our convoys averaged 3-5 mph as a result of the rough terrain and frequent IED strikes. The result was that our capacity was often grossly overestimated and that our obligations to other units were not considered.

Risk and Uncertainty Must Be Accepted -- Senior leaders sometimes obsess over "risk management." I had to prepare an operational risk management worksheet for every combat operation, and quickly learned that no operation would be approved unless it was "medium risk" or less. Knowing that we were going to be in a "medium risk firefight"...medium risk... the idea is laughable. You can do more harm than good as a leader if you saddle subordinates with equipment and restrictions meant to reduce risk. Train your people well -- and if they are willing to accept a risk, then you should consider accepting it.

As a Leader, Never Be Satisfied With Yourself -- This one, especially, bears repeating. The best company commander I know was always asking questions of juniors and seniors, reading books, and privately admitted that he was upset with how little he felt he knew -- even as he was well aware that he was far more knowledgeable than any of his peers. As soon as you think you know every inch of your unit and its operations, talk to your most junior personnel about the things they do. You will find at least one thing you didn't know and at least one thing to fix.

Thomas E. Ricks covered the U.S. military for the Washington Post from 2000 through 2008.
