
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The top official for veterans health care has resigned amid a firestorm over long appointment waits, treatment delays and falsified records at VA hospitals.

Veterans Affairs Undersecretary Robert Petzel, MD testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, May 15, 2014, before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.

In contrast to what it takes to arrange a doctor's appointment at a VA  hospital, events are happening fast  in the offices of Veterans Affairs in Washington, D.C.

On Thursday, a top aide to VA Secretary Eric Shinseki told readers of USA TODAY that his department takes "any allegations about patient care or employee misconduct very seriously" and vowed that "if allegations of misconduct are substantiated by the independent Office of Inspector General, we will take prompt and appropriate action."

Those were the words of Dr. Robert Petzel, undersecretary for health at the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Or, we should say, the former undersecretary. Under pressure from his boss, Shinseki, Petzel announced his resignation on Friday — despite Shinseki's declaration that none of the department's top leaders would face the ax before he had a chance to review an inspector-general report on the treatment delays, due in August.

The announcement immediately flunked a partisan smell test. Republicans argued that Petzel, a four-decade veteran of the department, already had announced retirement plans, suggesting he was being offered by the administration as a sacrificial lamb to quiet growing outrage over lagging treatment of vets at VA hospitals.

Petzel also had appeared with Shinseki on Thursday before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, a hearing fairly described as "contentious" and one in which Petzel did not exactly shine.

The undersecretary has been missing the forest for the trees from the start of the scandal. Earlier this month, Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake complained to Shinseki that Petzel seemed "completely tone-deaf" to the scandal erupting around him.

"When I talked to Shinseki, I said I thought that (Petzel's) comments were unfortunate because they basically implied that all was clear and there were no problems," Flake told Republic reporters Rob O'Dell and Dan Nowicki.

"I could tell that Shinseki was annoyed. That statement by Petzel had given leadership a lot of grief because it basically was pre-empting the IG report."

It seems fair to conclude that an earlier-than-planned retirement may have been in order for Petzel. But if anyone thinks that his departure in any way takes heat off Shinseki, they are delusional.

Petzel clearly is guilty of a bureaucrat's penchant for whistling past a graveyard.

His resignation says nothing about the still-developing evidence that military veterans may have been systematically denied prompt care at VA hospitals, a practice that may have led to at least 40 premature deaths in Phoenix alone.

That remains for the IG report to determine.

At a rally in Phoenix.  Veterans still have are skeptical about the changes in leadership.
