
CHESTERFIELD — A 23-year-old man was shot in the face Sunday in Chesterfield County and his brother was taken into custody following the incident.

Chesterfield police responded to the 7400 block of Hickory Road at about 5:45 p.m. to investigate a shooting. Officers found the victim suffering from a gunshot wound to his face and neck.

The victim’s 26-year-old brother surrendered and was taken into custody, police said.

The victim was conscious and speaking to officers and his injuries are not believed to be life-threatening, according to police.

No charges had been filed as of Sunday night.

A woman who lived next door and identified herself as a family member said the incident was a family issue and would not comment.

Anyone with information should contact the Chesterfield police at (804) 748-1251 or Crime Solvers at (804) 748-0660, or text the code “WATSON” with the tip and send to 274637 (CRIMES).

RICHMOND — Richmond police are investigating a shooting reported just before 10:30 a.m. Sunday in Mosby Court that left a man in his 20s with life-threatening injuries.

The victim was found on a sidewalk in the 1400 block of Coalter Street and is being treated at VCU Medical Center, Lt. Mauricio Tovar said.

Anyone with information is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 780-1000.

PETERSBURG — Several rare antique firearms were stolen from a Petersburg gun shop Sunday morning, police said.

At 11:11 a.m., an alarm sounded at Dunbar Gun Shop in the 200 block of North South Street. Police arrived two minutes later and discovered a window that appeared to have been tampered with, said Petersburg police spokeswoman Esther Hyatt.

The missing rifles and shotguns are “antique and very unique,” she said.

It was not immediately known whether there were surveillance cameras in the gun shop, Hyatt said. Investigators declined to release the number of firearms stolen. No ammunition was missing from the shop, Hyatt said.

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Two Richmond women were arrested on charges of having hundreds of packets of suspected heroin and a stun gun in their car in Rhode Island.

Rhode Island State Police said Joshe Jones, 19, was arrested Saturday after police seized 252 glassine packets of suspected heroin. Police say they investigated after Jones was caught speeding on Route 95 in Exeter.

She was arraigned on charges of possession of heroin and operating with a suspended license.

Police say passenger Audrey Chappelle had a stun gun and was arraigned on a charge of weapons other than firearms prohibited.

The two women were in custody and it was not known Sunday if they are represented by lawyers.

Posted in State-regional , Local on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:00 am.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Metro columnist and reporter for The Times-Dispatch who's never afraid to take sides on hot-button issues in Central Virginia.

RTD political reporter and columnist, Schapiro has covered Virginia elections and the state Capitol for 30 years. He warns, however, not to read or watch his commentary on a full stomach!

To log in, enter the email and password for your Times-Dispatch All Access account.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
