
SEATTLE, May 19 (UPI) -- Kathleen O'Toole, Boston's first female police commissioner and the first chief inspector of Ireland's national police, was named Monday to head the Seattle department.

O'Toole must be confirmed by the city council. But Murray's decision appeared to be a popular one in many quarters with praise from U.S. Attorney Jenny Durkan and the head of the Seattle chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union.

If O'Toole becomes the first woman to serve as the Seattle police chief, she will be taking over a department hit by scandals.

"Nobody dislikes rogue cops more than good cops," O'Toole said at the news conference. "If people make honest mistakes we'll stand by them."

O'Toole joined the Boston PD in 1979 as a patrol officer. She held top public safety jobs in Massachusetts and served on the Patten Commission, which created the Police Service of Northern Ireland, before being named the head of Boston's department in 2004.

In 2006, O'Toole moved to Ireland to head a three-person inspectorate examining the Garda, the country's national police force. More recently, she has served as the federal monitor for the New Haven, Conn., department.

Capt. Eric Sano, who served on Seattle's search committee, said O'Toole's "breadth of experience is incredible."

"She is a strong leader and a good communicator, and she's no-nonsense," he said.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
