
Whether it's the explosion in West or the Southwest Inn fire that killed four firefighters, when tragedy strikes Houstonians step up.

Donating to crowdfunding websites like "go fund me" has become a popular way to help families in their time of need.

Kaleb Infante is in good spirits now but in April, he was seriously injured after a driver crashed into his day care near Orlando.

Infante is home now, but his road to recovery is far from over.

“I know he's going to have to have specialist visits for about 18 months and the wheel chair and the walker.  They told us a little bit about how much it would be,” said Megan Bish, Infante's mother.

“We set up a fund on gofundme.com,” said Bish.

Her goal was $10,000. She's since raised well over $11,000. And she's not alone.

The fund for Lily Quintus who was killed in the crash has raised nearly $80,000.

Friends of families in need used to set up bank accounts and trust funds, but the internet now makes online donation the most efficient way to give.

The simple "click, donate and share" philosophy has turned go fund me and other crowdfunding sites into a two point seven billion dollar industry.

The answer is for the most part is yes, but there are fees.

Gofundme takes nearly 8 percent of the donation for overhead and processing fees.

So if you donate $100, that's $92 to the cause and $8 to the company.

Fundly, another popular site, charges the same fee.

Both sites point out that's a much lower cut than many large non profits which can take between 10 and 40 percent off the top.

Paypal offers a donation option which doesn't take a cut, but does charge the nearly 3 percent processing fee.

Keep in mind donations made to families or individuals are not tax deductible. The Internal Revenue Service considers that contribution a personal gift.

“Even if you can't donate that's fine just pray for him,” said Bish.

The crowdfunding sites say they do their best to police the funds and even reveal the e-mail account associated with the fund so you can check in on that person.

And while it might be a bit old fashioned, local banks are still willing to set up funds for those in need.

If you want to know if a larger charity is legitimate you can investigate them by going to charitynavigator.org.

Copyright 2014 by ClickOrlando.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Are you ready to go back to a place where everybody knows your name? Then start by cheering for this "Cheers" slideshow.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
