
There are two ways to make a slave. You can use whips and chains to force your slave to comply with your demands, or you can keep the slave ignorant and dependent on you by blocking their effort to learn to be free.

The radicals in Africa are attempting to enslave young girls by kidnapping them and burning their schools. No Muslim girl is given any right to be free. They are all considered to be the property of their fathers, brothers or husbands.

After the girls were kidnapped, the radicals proclaimed that they had been “rescued” from western culture. Those who were raised to be Christians were forced to recant their faith, take on Arabian dress and quote Islamic scripture. Their kidnappers threatened to sell them into slavery or as child brides. In any event, the idea that they be allowed to learn to read, or to think for themselves was considered to be an affront to Allah.

This is exactly the same system used to keep slaves dependent on their owners in our nation 200 years ago. It was illegal to teach a slave to read, although many slave masters ignored that law. In many instances senior slaves were sent to take the plantation’s harvest to market, negotiate the price and bring the payment back to their masters.

This action in Africa points out another truth about slavery. People seized in Africa and sold to slave ships were almost always the victims of other Africans. Even today, we hear of mass killings of one African tribe by members of a neighboring tribe, and those not killed are usually sold as slaves. And in most cases, the violence is justified by their interpretation of the Islamic religion.

In my opinion, any religion that teaches torture, murder, kidnapping or forced conversion is a false religion. Jesus taught that the only true teaching from God is to love one another. Throughout his messages, the doctrine of love prevails. His commandment that we love one another, that we even love our enemies, that we always forgive those who sin against us is the Christian way. The parable of the Good Samaritan sets the standard of conduct he expects from us.

I believe in the concept of opposites. Darkness is the opposite of light. Darkness cannot exist in the presence of light. Cold cannot exist in the presence of heat. Hatred cannot exist in the presence of love. Evil cannot exist in the presence of Good.

In that same line of thought, the Devil cannot exist in the presence of God. And the only place that God can be denied is within the human soul. So we create our own devil by denying God.

Evil and hatred cannot be from God. Any religion that teaches such can only come from the Devil. And that can only happen if we allow it by denying God. It is up to us to defeat evil by making God a part of our lives.

Yawn.

I agree with you Frank, although we must go further than a social gospel of good works.

Jesus said to a religious leader that he had to be Born Again. Without a total conversion of faith in Jesus steadfastly until our physical deaths or our being caught up to Jesus at his coming, then weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth is in our future.

John 3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

Matt 22:13 Then said the king [Jesus] to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast [him] into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

E-Mail addresses will not be displayed and will only be used for E-Mail notifications.

To prevent automated Bots from commentspamming, please enter the string you see in the image below in the appropriate input box. Your comment will only be submitted if the strings match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or your comment cannot be verified correctly.
