
WHERE you're  happy is where you plan to carry on living. Isn't it?  Not unless you don't know  if you'll be allowed to live in your home, in  the country you've made your  home.

Zodwa  Nyoni's new play Nine Lives, running at Glasgow’s Oran Mor this week, offers a  fascinating exploration of this subject.

It tells the  story of Ishmael (Lladel Bryant) a young man from  Zimbabwe who has been living  in a Leeds council estate while waiting  for the results of his application to  remain in the country.

"I got  the idea for the play because I had a friend who was going  through this  experience," Zodwa reveals. "He grew up with the sound of  guns and  terror and he came to England for a new life.

"But as  well as coming to terms with the new culture, he had to come to terms with the  waiting to be decided upon."

The  25-year-old writer adds; "I wrote this play because I know what  it's like  to have to keep on going. And what I mean by that is the  immigration people  don't just police the country at the airport, they  police your spirit.

"They  keep you hanging on and they try and break you. They try to make you quit and  go back where you come from."

She adds in  soft voice. "It's a terrible process."

Zodwa's  friend was eventually deported. "It was really sad. He wanted to study  music and that won't happen in Zimbabwe."

But her play  isn't informed only by her friends' experience.

She too  spent years waiting to find out if she would be allowed to  remain in the UK. Zodwa's  family first came to Britain in 1992 when she  was aged four.

Her father  and academic was studying and working at Leeds  University. His studies over, in  1995 the family returned to Zimbabwe  for four more years.

But in 1999,  the family returned when her father came back to study for his PhD, thanks to a  Commonwealth Scholarship.

Zodwa, her  mum and six brothers and sisters, lived in Leeds under the stamp of her  father's visa.

However, in  2006 her dad, who "never really felt at home in  Britain," returned to  Africa. But the rest of the family decided to  stay in Leeds.

She said:  "I was connected to Zimbabwe but Britain had taken a big chunk of our  childhood.

"My  socialisation was here. But because we'd come over on my dad's  visa we had to  apply to stay. And we had to wait. And wait."

For an  incredible six years. Meanwhile, Zodwa couldn't go to university or travel  freely.

As a  youngster, she'd written as a hobby and was so successful she was picked for  writing teams to travel to the States.

"It was  awful," she says. "I'd see opportunities come and go and it  was a  life of constant concern. And it was about never just having one  plan in life.

"You  had to have a Plan B, just in case the immigration judgement went against you.

"And  even when you make friends, you then have to tell them you may be leaving. It's  very heavy."

Zodwa was  finally granted permission to remain in the UK.

However, she  says the cultural confusion, the sense of displacement and having your head in two  worlds has a positive side.

She said:  "When I went back to Zimbabwe as a seven year old I didn't  know the  national anthem and felt really awkward. I couldn't even  speak the local  language. I'd forgotten it.

"Then  as I got the hang of it, I was back in England. But I guess  that experience has  helped form me as a writer. I've learned from both  worlds."

Zodwa  recently gained an MA in Writing and Performance and is now Channel 4's Writer  in Residence at West Yorkshire Playhouse.

There's been  another impact on her life.

"I've  become fearful of being disconnected," she admits.

"I  don't want to lose contact with cousins or friends. It's made me  value people  and cherish relationships. And that's not a bad thing."

This article was initially publised by the Evening Times.
