
Jill Hansen  has been arrested after striking a 73 year old Hawaiian woman with her car on Wednesday. The elderly woman, Elizabeth Conklin, claimed that the self-proclaimed pro surfer struck her with her car during what she is claiming was a carjacking. The 30 year old Hansen has a different version of events, that probably sounds more logical that the rantings of a paranoid 73 year old retiree. So far cops are buying the story that Conklin told, as there are some facts from that day that add up to it being true.

Hansen claims that she did not intend to steel Conklin’s vehicle, and that striking her with the car was just an accident. This story contradicts statements made by Conklin, who states that Hansen had her eyes on Conklin’s luxury automobile, and was willing to kill her to steal it from her. Perhaps the old lady was just upset about the ordeal, or profiling the younger surfer for fitting the profile of someone that she thinks would steal cars for a living. Either way, things do not look good for Hansen given her past history of assault and various other charges.

Jill Hansen is a semi-professional surfer who resides in Hawaii, and even attempts to run her own clothing company. She is covered in various tattoos and piercings on her body, and the style of clothes that she sells and wears may appear to be casual or immature to many. Such is the style that fits Hansen’s tastes.

Police are still investigating what caused the accident on Wednesday, and trying to determine if there may have been any motive behind the collision. Initially the police thought that Hansen may have still been aggressively driving, related to a road rage incident reported earlier that day. She also fled the scene of the accident where she struck Conklin with her car, but only after a bystander smashed her car’s back window with a crowbar. Despite trying to maintain her innocence, police have placed Hansen under arrest and charged her with attempted murder. Her bail has been set at $1 million.

30 Year Old Surfer Girl Runs Over 73 Year Old Woman During Botched Carjacking.

Somebody feed the girl a cheeseburger before she blows away.

Loading..
