
A war widow has had her marriage officially recognized by the VA, two years after her wife was killed by a suicide bomber in Afghanistan.

Tracy Dice Johnson married Staff Sgt. Donna Johnson in the nation's capital months after the September 2011 repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." Both were part of the North Carolina National Guard .

Johnson is believed to be the nation's first same-sex war widow.

"After a review of my case, the Department of Veterans Affairs has decided to retroactively recognize me as Donna's legal spouse," Johnson said Saturday, while accepting an award in Washington, D.C. "Of course, there remains more work to be done. Throughout this ordeal, my biggest goal has been to get the Army to change Donna's death certificate to recognize our marriage. That goal has not yet been achieved. However, this decision from the Department of Veterans Affairs is an important step toward our end goal of achieving equal treatment for all military families."

Johnson announced the decision at a gala where she was honored as the 2014 Community Hero by the American Military Partner Association.

The organization said Johnson was recognized for her work "in fighting for recognition of all LGBT military spouses."

Stephen Peters, president of the American Military Partner Association, said the change was "hopefully a major breakthrough for our gay and lesbian veterans and their spouses trying to gain access to their earned benefits ."

"There is still a great amount of uncertainty," he said, "but for the sake of our families, we hope that this is signaling a change in policy by the VA."

Donna Johnson was killed in Afghanistan more than a year after her marriage.

She and Tracy Johnson had been together for more than six years before they wed -- hiding their relationship from the military at the time while serving together, first on Fort Bragg and later in the North Carolina National Guard.

But Army officers never came to Tracy Johnson's door to tell her about her wife's death.

A federal law, the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), prevented the legal recognition of their marriage. Part of that law has since been found to be unconstitutional. The repeal of the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy and the gutting of DOMA drew strong criticism from conservative Christian groups and Republican members of Congress, who said the actions undermined traditional values.

In correspondence from the Department of Defense, Dice said, officials expressed their condolences for the loss of her "significant other." The lone exception was President Obama, the only government official to refer to Donna Johnson as Tracy Johnson's wife.

In a January 2013 article in the Fayetteville Observer, Johnson said her worst fear was that she would be somehow excluded following her wife's death.

When summoned to her in-laws' home in Raeford, Johnson clutched her marriage certificate and was prepared to argue with casualty officers who came bearing the bad news.

Her mother-in-law, Sandra Johnson, and a military officer helped push officials to allow Johnson to escort her wife's body from Dover Air Force Base in Delaware.

Johnson also said the Department of Veterans Affairs had denied her application for survivor's benefits and said she worried that other same-sex spouses would hit similar roadblocks.

"To be shut out completely? It's a tragedy that a soldier could fall and a spouse not be supported," Johnson said in 2013. "It's 100 percent wrong. It just doesn't feel right.

"Her mother is the only reason I've gotten anything. I'm not doing any of this for benefits. If I didn't stand up for people who might come behind me, it would be wrong."

© Copyright 2014 Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
