
24 season 9, episode 4 airs tonight. Adrian Cross made his move and now it’s time for Jack to respond.

If nothing else, 24 has one of the best “Previously on…” segments of any show ever. But just in case you tune in a few minutes late tonight let’s recap. Last week President Heller began to give his speech to Parliament and it… did not go well. Thanks to the magic of real-time, we know he’ll likely still be giving that speech within the first few minutes of the episode.

Jack raced to Parliament with the help of Adrian Cross, Chloe and friends. Though Adrian double-crossed Jack at the last moment and had his ID flagged. In response, Jack fired a bullet into the leg of a protester to incite a riot. Wouldn’t it have made just as much sense to shoot a round into the air? It would, but if Jack Bauer has the opportunity to shoot a hippie, he’s going to shoot a hippie. This is why 24 has made it 9 seasons.

Tonight, Jack and Heller continue on their respective paths, while Kate Morgan creeps closer to finding Jack and Margot continues to be villainous in the shadows of a cavernous British mansion.

The terror threat escalates as Jack heads for the U.S. Embassy with the CIA closing in on him. Meanwhile, Margot asserts her authority with unthinkable force; President Heller makes an impassioned speech to Parliament; and Kate takes matters into her own hands.

Fox offers full episodes of 24 on its official website. However, they typically aren’t up for several days.

A quicker option is to set your DVR or watch the episode OnDemand through your cable provider. They’re usually OnDemand the following day of the premiere date.

iTunes also offers a season pass for $31.99 or individual episodes for $2.99.

Hypable encourages the community to use our Comments feature to hold thoughtful, polite, and critical discussions. We do NOT tolerate inappropriate, rude, or downright mean discussion towards the news story's subject matter or towards other Hypable users. We reserve the right to delete or ban comments and users who violate these guidelines.
