
Three men reportedly wearing Mardi Gras style masks and black hooded sweat shirts approached a man at Fullerton and Howard Streets on May12, asked him if he wanted to fight and then got into their car and left. Police located the men. One, a 19-year-old Elk Grove Village man, was charged with possession of drug paraphernalia. Another, a 19-year-old from Elmhurst, was charged with possession of cannabis. Police said the man who they had challenged to fight no longer wanted to sign complaints.

A woman found a note on her car from her neighbor in the 100 block of South York Road asking her to park better. The woman wrote a note back to the name stating that she was parking appropriately. The woman later found a long scratch mark on her car. Police talked to the neighbor who denied making the scratch.

A spare tire was reported stolen May 14 from a truck parked in the 100 block of West Brush Hill. It was valued at $700.

A 49-year-old Elmhurst woman was charged May 14 with disorderly conduct, resisting a peace officer, and battery. She was found passed out about 4:40 p.m. on the parkway at Eggleston and Hillside Streets. She tried to pull away and leave when officers attempted to talk to her.

A 46-year-old Lombard man was charged May 12 with unlawful possession of a controlled substance, improper lane use, and operating an uninsured motor vehicle. Police found a white powdery substance on the center console of the car during a traffic stop at St. Charles Road and Illinois Highway 83.

A MacBook Pro computer was stolen from Edison Elementary School between April 20 and May 2. A librarian said she placed the computer under her desk at the end of the day. When she returned two days later it was missing.

A 34-year-old Chicago man was charged May 13 with aggravated drunken driving, illegal transportation of alcohol, driving with a suspended license, improper signaling and improper lane use during a traffic stop at North Avenue and the Eisenhower Expressway.

A 49-year-old Elmhurst man was charged May 13 with retail theft. The intoxicated man was found lying near some bushes at York and First Streets with a bottle of alcohol protruding from his back pocket. Police found a receipt for a blood pressure check at Mariano's grocery store in his pocket. They reviewed video tape from the store and determined that he had stolen the alcohol.

A woman tried to buy a pair of sandals using a counterfeit $50 bill May 13 at a store in the 100 block of West North Avenue. When confronted the woman left the scene without incident. Police are continuing to investigate.
