
WHYY staff reporter Holly Otterbein covers Philadelphia's city government and schools. After more than a year in public radio, she almost doesn't hate the sound of her own voice.

Before starting on her current beat in May 2013, she worked as a reporter for "It's Our Money," a collaboration between WHYY and the Philadelphia Daily News focusing on the municipal budget. She was previously a staff writer for the Philadelphia City Paper.

Her honors include a first-place award from the Association of Alternative News Media, a 2012 award from the Pennsylvania Associated Press Broadcasters Association, and 2011 and 2010 awards from the Society of Professional Journalists' Philadelphia chapter.

She was born in Baltimore and therefore has lots of opinions about crabs. She also lived in rural Pennsylvania for several years. She now calls South Philly home.

Philadelphia has long been thought of as anti-choice — in the electoral sense, that is. It's a one-party town, and many city Democrats running for the General Assembly also don't face opposition in primary elections.

So it will likely come as a surprise to Philadelphia voters that they'll have more options at the polls Tuesday than in past years.

Political analysts said there are likely several reasons for the extra competition, including political polarization, the legislative redistricting process of 2011 and an increasingly fractured Democratic party.

"There's just really widening differences in state politics and opinions and priorities," said Beverly Cigler, a state government professor at Pennsylvania State University's Harrisburg campus. "All of that just induces people who have differing views to want to be listened to and, therefore, you get more contested primaries."

Larry Ceisler, a political consultant, said another possible explanation is that the city's Democratic machine is weaker and more fragmented than in past years.

For instance, Democratic City Councilwoman Maria Quiñones-Sánchez is backing a slate of mostly Latino candidates running for the state House and Senate, and none have been endorsed by party leaders.

Ceisler also noted that the General Assembly re-drew the state's legislative districts in 2011, leaving some districts drastically altered. He said the 202nd, which has been held by Democratic Rep. Mark Cohen for decades, is "almost like a new district." Cohen is facing a challenger, community activist Jared Solomon, in the primary election.

"It's really not running against an incumbent," said Ceisler of Solomon. "It's really like running for a new seat."

Political observers mentioned Solomon and some of Sánchez's allies as credible candidates. Another race to watch is in the 4th district: Brian Gralnick and Art Haywood are seeking to unseat Democratic state Sen. LeAnna Washington, who is considered vulnerable because she is facing corruption charges.

However, political scientist Terry Madonna predicts that the vast majority of incumbents in the Philadelphia delegation will hold onto their seats. According to his research, state lawmakers have won re-election in recent years more than 90 percent of the time.

"I suspect when the general election is done in November, the state legislature will have a 90 percent-plus re-election rate" again, he said.

Your browser is out-of-date!
