
Share This Story!

Police say one juvenile is believed to be connected to at least one of two shootings that occurred this weekend.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Iowa City Police.

Police say one juvenile has been detained and believed to be connected to at least one of two Iowa City shootings that occurred this weekend.

Iowa City Lt. Mike Brotherton said the juvenile is believed to have been involved in a Sunday evening shooting that occurred on the 2100 block of Davis Street at about 7:30 p.m. Brotherton said the juvenile, who was picked up on a parole violation, was likely accompanied by an adult when multiple shots were fired in the southeast Iowa City neighborhood.

"We're looking at one potential arrest from this incident," Brotherton said of the adult suspect. "We do have somebody that we're looking at and we anticipate some charges being filed sometime as we continue on with the investigation."

Brotherton said police believe the Sunday shooting spilled over from a neighborhood dispute that took place earlier that day.

While the investigation into the shooting is ongoing, Brotherton said there is a strong possibility that the juvenile and adult are tied to two of the other three shootings that have occurred in Iowa City this year.

Brotherton said the Davis Street shooting bears similarities to a Friday night shooting — that took place at 423 Second Ave. a little after midnight but wasn't reported until about 3:15 p.m. Saturday — as well as the early morning April 20 shooting near 2626 Bartelt Road that saw more than two dozen shots fired.

"There is a common denominator, some of the people that we think are involved might have been involved with the others as well," Brotherton said. "I think that there's a handful of people that are causing these issues or problems and now we're starting to get information about who they are and trying to develop a case but again, what we've been hampered with is a lack of information forthcoming. There are a lot of people that see this stuff going on, a lot of people who are witnesses and they are not being forthcoming on the information to law enforcement."

There have been no reported injuries in the Davis Street, Second Avenue and Bartelt Road shootings and, in each incident, gunfire appears to have been directed into the air or at nearby vehicles and structures, but not at people, Brotherton said.

"Witnesses that we did speak with indicated that they were just randomly shooting the gun off, some went into the air, some went into the ground some went here or there but nobody was struck so we think it is a good possibility that one person or two people are responsible for those," Brotherton said, adding that there is a good possibility that the juvenile and adult were involved in the three shootings. "Common in all three is the fact that they were shot off in a pretty much haphazard manner."

Two Cedar Rapids men have been arrested and charged for their alleged involvement in a March 7 shooting at 2608 Bartelt Road that saw more than one dozen shots fired inside and outside the apartment building.

One woman who was inside her apartment at the time was injured during the shooting after a bullet hit her in the spine, paralyzing her, according to court documents. At least four nearby vehicles also were struck by gunfire, police say.

Police have arrested 19-year-old Gage M. Rupp and 20-year-old Devasier J. Cungtion, aka "Vassie," of Cedar Rapids in connection with the first Bartelt Road shooting. Both have been charged with intimidation with a dangerous weapon and reckless use of a firearm, both Class C felonies.

Iowa City police had also issued arrest warrants for a third Cedar Rapids man and an Iowa City man but those warrants have been recalled and the two men are no longer suspects in the investigation, Brotherton said.

Police say they encourage anyone with information regarding any of the Iowa City shootings to contact the Iowa City Police Department at 319-356-5275 or the Iowa City Area CrimeStoppers at 358-TIPS (8477).

CrimeStoppers is offering a reward of up to $1000 for information leading to the arrest of the wanted suspect(s). All calls are held in strict confidence and anonymity is guaranteed. Individuals providing information do not have to reveal their identity to collect a reward.

Reach Mitchell Schmidt at maschmidt@press-citizen.com or at 887-5402.

• 7:30 a.m. Sunday: Reports of multiple shots being fired on the 2100 block of Davis Street. No injuries have been reported.

• 3:15 p.m. Saturday: Police receive reports that multiple shots had been fired near 423 Second Ave. sometime after midnight Friday. Gunshots struck a home and nearby unoccupied vehicle and no injuries have been reported.

• 3 a.m. April 20: Police receive multiple reports that more than two dozen shots had been fired near the Pheasant Ridge Apartment complex at 2626 Bartelt Road. No injuries have been reported.

• 11:50 p.m. March 7: Police respond to multiple reports that shots had been fired inside and outside the Pheasant Ridge Apartment Complex at 2608 Bartelt Road. One woman was struck by a bullet and paralyzed as a result. Two Cedar Rapids men have been charged with their alleged involvement in the shooting.
