
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

LOWELL, MI -- Headed out for a little bass fishing last week, Kentwood resident David Osterhout never thought he'd catch the biggest fish of his life.

Osterhout, 27, was casting a rattling crank bait while fishing with friend Brian Cate when his line tightened and he saw a huge shadow in the water.

It would be a first for Osterhout and as the fight ensued, he worked to control both the fish and his emotions.

"I'm basically just a bass fisherman. I wasn't even trying to catch a musky," Osterhout said.

Fishing with just 8-pound test line, Osterhout followed after the fish with his trolling motor, keeping tension on the line but taking care not to put too much stress on it.

The first time he got it to the boat, Osterhout tried to grab the gill plate and heft the fish aboard.

"I picked it up halfway before it thrashed and crashed back into the water," Osterhout said.

Overjoyed to see it still hooked, Osterhout began to work the fish again and changed his plan of attack the second time around.

"The next time I got it up that close I just threw my pole down and bear hugged the thing to get it out of the water," Osterhout said, noting the soggy arms of his hooded sweatshirt.

As a smile washed over his face, Osterhout held the fish up while Cate took some pictures and began to record the length with a tape measure.

"When Brian was holding out the tape measure, it kind of lunged at him like it was gonna get him," Osterhout said.

Caught without a scale onboard his boat, Osterhout slid the fish back into the water and sat down to take a moment to himself.

"After I let it go I was kind of shaky, like when you shoot a big deer," he said.

The fish's length was 44 inches, which would put its weight around 25 pounds, according to OutdoorsFirst.com's musky weight calculator .

Osterhout's heart stopped racing and he commenced fishing, only to notice something about his bait had changed.

"One of the barbs on each of the treble hooks was bent out," he said. "I have no idea how it stayed on."

"Everyone at work was amazed I didn't keep it," he said. "A big fish like that, I had to throw it back. It's been alive so long and I'm not going to eat it. It didn't feel right to keep it."

"Maybe I'll have a replica made of it."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
