
What is old is new again for the makers of Dickinson's Witch Hazel.

The company has reached out to a whole new generation of customers, hoping to sell them on all of the benefits of the naturally-made Connecticut product.

"Witch hazel itself is a plant," said Bryan Jackowitz of American Distilling and Dickinson Brands. "It was used by the Native Americans for medicinal purposes."

The extract from the plant has been used for more than just medicine.

"Oil reduction, it removes excess oils and impurities from your skin - helps to unclog your pours and prepares the skin for makeup or moisturizer," Jackowitz said.

It's a stand-alone product customers can purchase, but it's also an ingredient used in other popular products like Preparation H, Olay Toner, Clinique's Clarifying Lotion and Suave Hair Spray.

One of the most popular makers of witch hazel was American Distilling and Dickinson Brands in East Hampton. The company first produced it in Essex in the 1800s.

"T.N. Dickinson Sr. made his fortune in Civil War uniforms and after the Civil War he needed something else to do," Jackowitz said.

Dickinson started distilling witch hazel, named not for the lady on the broom, but rather more likely for the shrub's bendable branches, called "wiche."

Witch hazel was derived from the plants, which were grown in Connecticut during the winter months and delivered to the factory.

"It gets pushed into this hopper," Jackowitz said. "Once the chips go into this hopper, the hopper has big tracks in it, it gets put on this side belt. It feeds the rechipper."

Eventually the bark and pulp of the plant were pushed into a pipe.

"We use a steam extraction to extract the essence from the material and make the witch hazel," said Jackowitz.

The witch hazel was then pumped into a 25,000 tank and forwarded to one or two parts of the factory. It will either be shipped to a pharmaceutical or cosmetic manufacturer or some of it will end up in an area for store pickup.

"All of the lines are fed by the bulk tanks," said Jackowitz. "The operator puts the bottles on at the end of the line. The bottles get into the cleaner down there. They get sprayed with deironized air and they get vacuumed out."

The product went into the bottles. The labels were then put on and after a visual inspection, they're off to the local pharmacy or other retailer.

With the popularity of all-natural products on the rise, the Connecticut company was hoping a new generation would appreciate what their grandparents and great grandparents knew long ago.

"The thing that grandma told you about is really the only thing you need," Jackowitz said.

Copyright 2014 WFSB (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.

All content © 2014, WSHM; Springfield, MA. (A Meredith Corporation Station) and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.
