
Statistics say Rapid City is not a great place to walk safely.

• Pedestrians here are hit by cars on average more than twice as often as in other South Dakota cities.

• They are nearly 30 percent more likely than the national average to be hit by a vehicle based on data from 2002 to 2011.

• In 2013, 13 residents were hit by a turning vehicle; seven were struck after darting into a road; and one was struck while walking down the street.

• Fatalities are rare, with no deaths here in 2012 or 2013, but the death rate in 2011 was nearly triple the state average and double the national average.

Stephen Nauman was in downtown Rapid City on Sunday, just strolling about in the pirate costume he often wears just for fun, when he decided to take a bit more care while crossing streets.

Nauman had just been informed that statistics show Rapid City is a dangerous place to walk, and has a rate of pedestrians being struck by vehicles that is more than twice the rate in the rest of the state and high even on a national level.

"I've never heard that, but now that I have, I'll keep an eye out for rabid cars," said Nauman, 20, who stroked his fake mustache while reconsidering his usual carefree approach.

Rapid City officials are aware of the unusually high risk pedestrians face, and they hope a recently received grant and subsequent study will diagnose problems and create solutions to make streets safer.

A past city study showed that 26 pedestrians were hit by motorists in 2013, up from 18 in 2012 and well over the average of 20 pedestrians hit on average from 2002 to 2011. The city study will include data gathering but also a test of actual walking conditions by auditors who will walk the streets.

Resident Malcolm McCaleb has felt the worry of walking in Rapid City. He said he has sometimes had to dodge a careless driver, especially at intersections.

"You really have to be aware," said McCaleb, 67, a construction worker. "I've had a couple (near misses). The right turns are the problem. Drivers won't look at the corner. You have to make visual contact."

Whether the city is safe drew mixed responses among people downtown over the weekend. Sue Egan, 59, said walking Rapid City's streets poses no danger for her. But that perspective comes as the Tuscon, Ariz., woman is making a "Thelma and Louise" road trip across the nation with her mother.

"We’ll be looking into that in the next few weeks," Smith said, adding that the city is waiting for the final audit contract from the state Department of Health, which awarded the money. "We are looking to have the walk audit to get more information on what community members feel needs to change."

She said the walk audit will be ongoing for the next year, starting May 31.

Rapid City resident Sara Hornick, community engagement director for the Rapid City YMCA, said a good starting point would be to pinpoint areas where school children cross the street to make that safer. Hornick, whose group promotes walking for health, also suggested installing more "vitally important" sidewalks in neighborhoods that otherwise lack walkways.

"Honestly, I'm not sure how to grade us yet," Hornick said, adding that the walk audit is what's needed to get the right answer.

She said the audit will also help align several independent efforts such as the YMCA's work through a Pioneering Healthier Communities grant, which has been split into four committees in an effort to get more people walking.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Members of our community: the attitude displayed above is most of the problem. This will make it easy. If you have a friend or family who thinks they own the road and gives you a list of people who should hurry up and GET OFF THE ROAD, then I'll tell you, do your darnedest to change that persons behavior. He/she will be the one that inadvertently kills somebody.

" Down by the school of mines where there is a "flashing" reminder to stop when someone is in a crosswalk, we stopped to let a student cross the street . . . but the car behind us? That car went around us and went speeding through the crosswalk."

Some of these crosswalks are an accident waiting to happen. With a multilane road the view of people crossing is easily obstructed by a larger vehicle. Pedestrians may have the right of way but they should use caution when stepping out into the road.

Thats when you get the license plate of the vehicle that went around you and turn the idiot  in.

South Dakota does not have a public intoxication law. And as far as I know Rapid City does not have a city ordnance for it.

They don't need to spend $5,000 on a study. All you have to do is drive around for 15 minutes.

#1. Require a comprehensive driver education course, and require on road driver training like most states require.

#2. Ticket people who do not stop at the stop line, or stop on the Crosswalk.

#3. Ticket people who do not use turn lanes properly.

#4 . Build a bike and pedestrian bridge over Omaha St.

#5. Put in more crosswalks, and paint all of them so they last more than a week.

#6. Since texting has been band for being a distraction, come up with limits on street side signs, and have all digital signs removed. The digital signs are a very bad distraction and the bright flashes of light are dangerous to road safety.

to step in front of a car traveling at 20 MPH. I think the walkers should be more attentive to there surroundings a do as MOM said. Look both was before you step out.

suggestion: why pay for a study? You already have the accident stats. Use them. Then build a pedestrian walkway over Omaha between the Civic Center and downtown.

The pedestrian safety issues is NOT just in Rapid City.  We were in Deadwood Sunday.  I started crossing the street (in a marked crosswalk).  A car was approaching and slowed down, so I kept on walking . . . but had to jump back as the car just kept on going and did NOT stop.  Then three minutes later, my husband crossed on the same crosswalk.  A pickup truck was at the stop sign half a block away.  He started across and had to run the last few feet as the pickup did NOT stop.  People just do NOT pay attention to anything . . . they are way too self absorbed in listening to the radio, talking on their cells, eating, arguing with a passenger, etc., or are late for work, etc. and just do not care about anyone walking.  They feel pedestrians should yield to vehicles.  But . . . Rapid City is very bad.  Down by the school of mines where there is a "flashing" reminder to stop when someone is in a crosswalk, we stopped to let a student cross the street . . . but the car behind us?  That car went around us and went speeding through the crosswalk.  But . . . sometimes it is the pedestrian.  One morning up on East North by McDonald's, we were waiting at a red light to turn onto East North.  An elderly man started to cross the road against the red light and started cussing and motioning towards a pickup truck that was passing through the green light . . . and picked up a rock and threw it at the pickup.  He was pretty darn lucky the pickup driver didn't stop.  There is no answer to the problem.  People just are just too self absorbed in themselves to care about anyone else.

I saw on Saturday a drunk pedestrian urinating on the sidewalk on St. Joe and at Kmart in Rapid City I saw two different people get into their cars, pop open a beer and drive away.  Sure seems like situations like this are becoming much more common.

RCPD needs to start writing tickets for people not using the crosswalk. This is not just a vehicle issue, part of the problem is people don't know what a crosswalk is or how to use it!

Strolling around in pirate costume he often wears downtown.  And now he's going to be more careful about rabid cars.  Good grief!

Username & Password Required!
