
Russell Bucklew, 46, suffers from serious health issues and, after the botched execution in Oklahoma, fears the use of drugs from a secretive source could cause a 'painful' death in violation of the Eighth Amendment. The execution, scheduled for 12:01 a.m. Wednesday, is the first in the United States since Clayton Lockett took 43 minutes to die in a botched Oklahoma execution April 29.

He wants the whole world to see his death.

A Missouri inmate scheduled to be executed at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday wants the death house proceedings videotaped to “preserve vital evidence” in the event he has “a prolonged and excruciating execution while he struggles for air,” his lawyers wrote in a motion Friday.

Russell Bucklew, 46, has serious health issues that causes weakened and malformed blood vessels, as well as tumors in his airways, that the convicted murderer and rapist fears “could rupture, causing cough, choking and suffocation, or impairing the circulation of the lethal drug,” according to motion, Mother Jones reported.

I truly believe he’s probably the most evil person I ever prosecuted because he’s such a pure sociopath.

Bucklew, to be executed with a lethal drug from a source not publicly disclosed by authorities, is the first person to be put to death in the United States since a botched execution in Oklahoma on April 29.

That execution drew international attention after Clayton Lockett, 38, writhed and groaned on the gurney after a vein in his groin transporting the lethal drugs “blew,” slowing the disbursement of the drug cocktail through his system.

The execution was stopped but Lockett, moaning and reportedly conscious for much of the ordeal, died of a massive heart attack 43 minutes after the procedure began.

HANDOUT/REUTERS Oklahoma halted the execution of Clayton Lockett on April 29 due to problems with its lethal injection, but the inmate later died of an apparent heart attack.

In 1996, Bucklew hunted down his ex-girlfriend, Stephanie Pruitt, to a Cape Girardeau mobile home, where he shot dead the woman’s new beau, Michael Sanders, in front of four children.

He took Pruitt to a remote location where he raped her. Later, he got into a gunfight with a state trooper and was shot. But Bucklew escaped from jail and hid in Pruitt’s mother’s home, attacking the woman with a hammer. The woman escaped alive and Bucklew was captured and sentenced to death for the crime spree.

Pat Sullivan/ASSOCIATED PRESS Inmates and their advocates have fought to learn the origin of the drugs used in executions to no avail. The push has received international attention after the botched execution in Oklahoma last month.

Bucklew would be the seventh Missouri inmate since November to be put to death using pentobarbital, which has caused no problems in the previous six executions. His attorneys fear the Oklahoma incident, which caused the state to stay another scheduled execution for six months, and Bucklew’s health issues could create a torturous mix.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
