
Oklahoma authorities say a 47-year-old Summerville man was killed, and his wife injured, after a pickup truck he was driving crashed into another truck that failed to stop on a highway in Oklahoma this past weekend.

The 9-year-old boy who touched the hearts of so many in the Midlands has passed away.

A reward for information surrounding the October 2013 murder of an 18-year-old West Ashley man has been increased to $8,000.

Charleston police are continuing to search for leads following the shooting death of Malcom Cornett Jefferson on October 8, 2013. Crime Stoppers initially offered a $1,000 reward in the case, but anonymous donors added another $4,000 in February. Donors have now pushed the total reward to $8,000.

According to authorities, police arrived at 1139 Forbes Avenue to find Jefferson in a shed, suffering from a gunshot wound. Jefferson was transported to MUSC, where he died as a result of his injuries.

Investigators say it appeared Jefferson was shot outside the address and ran inside to where a number of people were playing cards.

If you have any information on this incident, call Crime Stoppers at 843-554-1111.

Copyright 2014 WCSC. All rights reserved.

Longtime neighbors of Johnson Hagood Stadium are convinced Friday night's gun incident was out of the ordinary, and they say safety isn't a concern at all.

A Goose Creek man pleaded guilty to 10 counts of animal cruelty on Monday in connection to a 2013 incident where 45 dogs in poor condition and the remains of 200 dogs were found at a home.

The director of the annual Sertoma football classic said Monday the board may consider using metal detectors next year after a gun was sneaked into Johnson Hagood Stadium.

A Walterboro man has been charged with criminal sexual conduct. According to a 16-year-old victim, back in July, 55-year-old David Alan Evans forced the teen to engage in a sex act.

Officials with the Charleston County Coroner's Office says a body that was found at a boat landing in Mount Pleasant was a man who jumped from the Arthur Ravenel Bridge.

Charleston police officials say crews have cleared the scene of an accident on Savannah Highway in West Ashley.

In July, Charleston Stingrays alumni faced off with the Charleston Fire Department's hockey team with proceeds going to to benefit Stephen Skipton, Sr. in his battle with cancer.

Traffic is moving in the area of I-526 and the North Rhett Avenue exit following a car fire Monday afternoon. Pictures and videos from the scene showed a car on fire, and emergency crews responding to the incident.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and WCSC. All Rights Reserved.
