
Hundreds of Vietnamese in the UK, Australia, Angola, Belgium and South Korea have held rallies to protest China’s illegal placement of Haiyang Shiyou 981 in Vietnamese territorial waters.

On May 18, around 400 people gathered on the street outside the Chinese Embassy in London. "I hope the rallies will have some impact on international community and garner more support for Vietnam's cause," one protester said.

On the same day, Vietnamese in Australia also gathered in front the Chinese Embassy in Canberra and Chinese Consulate General in Melbourne. They held signs reaffirming Vietnamese sovereignty over the Spratly and Paracel Island and demanding that China honour international law.

"Vietnamese working or living overseas, along with the international community, should continue their support for Vietnam," said Tran Ba Phuc, chairman of Vietnam Business Association in Australia. Many Australians also participated. John Hamilton, a professor from Victoria University, called on support for Vietnam and opposition to China's actions.

There were more protests in other countries, including one in Angola of about 200 people who were asking the Chinese in Angola to help repair relations between Vietnam and China. Vietnamese living in that country also donated over USD27,000 to Vietnamese fishermen and coastal guards.

Similar sentiments were demonstrated in events orchestrated in Belgium, and South Korea.

Meanwhile, in Vietnam, no protests have been held since gatherings became disorderly in Binh Duong and Ha Tinh provinces earlier last week.

An official letter from May 15 and a directive on May 17 from the Prime Minister ordered authorities to prevent illegal demonstrations and protests resulting in damage or injury. The Ministry of Public Security also asked other units to prevent protests that could cause public disorder and to guard foreign-invested firms, especially Chinese and Taiwanese enterprises. As of May 18, operations at industrial and economic zones has started to return to normal.
