
The fact is that he shouldn’t have to ask this question. The White House has known about itfor five years.

The Obama administration received clear notice more than five years ago that VA medical facilities were reporting inaccurate waiting times and experiencing scheduling failures that threatened to deny veterans timely health care — problems that have turned into a growing scandal.

Veterans Affairs officials warned the Obama-Biden transition team in the weeks after the 2008 presidential election that the department shouldn’t trust the wait times that its facilities were reporting.

“This is not only a data integrity issue in which [Veterans Health Administration] reports unreliable performance data; it affects quality of care by delaying — and potentially denying — deserving veterans timely care,” the officials wrote.

Now, before any lefties start whining about how I’m not attacking George W. Bush for his failures on this matter, let’s just be clear that I am. Obviously, if Obama’s transition team was warned of the problem, it existed under the previous administration. It’s a safe bet that they knew about it and it appears very likely that they were ignoring it. In fact, we’ve been hearing VA horror stories for decades. It wouldn’t be at all surprising to learn that every administration - going all the way back to Nixon and Carter - was aware that some version of this issue existed.

No one should care what party or President we’re talking about. If it’s proven that members of previous administrations allowed this problem to continue, they should absolutely be held accountable.

However, to paraphrase Donald Rumsfeld, “you go to war with the administration you have, not the ones you wish you had.” The “administration we have” knew about this problem - for years - and didnothing.

$1,700,000 for a new filing system in California.

Those in need were placed on secret wait lists where they languished for months - in as many as 40 cases (probably more) this was a de facto death sentence. Yet the VA could spend almost half a billion dollars on furniture and upgrades? Disturbingly, all of this happened while Team Obama was busy trying to “reform” the rest of the nation’s health care system.

...and they were warned about the problem from day one.

Be sure to “like” Robert Laurie over on Facebook and follow him on Twitter . You’ll be glad you did.

Pursuant to Title 17 U.S.C. 107, other copyrighted work is provided for educational purposes, research, critical comment, or debate without profit or payment. If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for your own purposes beyond the 'fair use' exception, you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.

Views are those of authors and not necessarily those of Canada Free Press. Content is Copyright 1997-2014 the individual authors.
