
For years, President Obama and Democrats told us that fighting terrorism was one and the same as killing Osama bin Laden. They mocked President Bush for not getting him; then when Navy SEALs acted on a lead predating the Obama administration, the White House crowed, "GM is alive and OBL is dead."

Well, the threat of terrorism is alive and growing more dangerous. That's what the Army general who directed the National Security Agency for eight years until March warns in a new New Yorker interview.

"The number of attacks that are coming, the probability, it's growing," Gen. Keith Alexander told the magazine's Mattathias Schwartz. "What I saw at NSA is that there is a lot more coming our way."

Alexander has also served as U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM) commander and chief of the Pentagon's Central Security Service.

"We're at greater risk," he says, despite high-tech surveillance foiling numerous plots. "Look at the way al-Qaida networks. From al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, al-Qaida in the Islamic Magreb, and now in Syria, the al-Nusra front."

Explicitly contradicting the White House line that a more diffuse al-Qaida is good news, Alexander cautioned, "you can say those are distant countries, but a lot of these groups are looking to attack the United States."

What a comparison to the happy talk of "Mission Accomplished" that we hear from Obama. In September, he bragged to the United Nations that "an international coalition will end its war in Afghanistan, having achieved its mission of dismantling the core of al-Qaida that attacked us on 9/11."

Maybe it was in one of the many daily intel briefings that the president chose to skip, but someone should inform him that the Taliban — which we ran out of town in a few weeks 12 years ago — is now poised to return to at least partial power in Afghanistan.

Obama also boasted to the General Assembly that "al-Qaida has splintered into regional networks and militias, which has not carried out an attack like 9/11," downplaying current threats as being "to governments, diplomats, businesses and civilians across the globe."

The new, less centralized al-Qaida grows in the vacuum of U.S. global power that Obama has given us. Premature pullouts from Iraq and Afghanistan, and so-called "soft power" have encouraged what he obliviously describes as "the convulsions in the Middle East and North Africa" that "have laid bare deep divisions within societies, as an old order is upended, and people grapple with what comes next."

Coming next could well be waves of American blood.

     Investors.com.

     for free membership on Investors.com.

Top stocks' action is a good indicator of the market's strength.

© 2014 MarketSmith, Incorporated . Charts provided by MarketSmith are used by IBD under license agreement. MarketSmith is a registered trademark of MarketSmith, Incorporated.
