
DAVAO City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte revealed Monday that a suspected shabu was found in the possession of the soldier who was abducted by the New People's Army (NPA).

"I have no reason to doubt. Hindi naman nagsisinungaling itong NPA," said Duterte, who facilitated the release of Corporal Rogelio Rosales, with serial number 841376, member of the Bravo Company under the 60th Infantry Battalion.

Rosales was abducted by the members of the NPA's Front 34 in Barangay Florida around 10:40 a.m.

"Illegal na sya and shabu to me init na (It's illegal and I detest shabu)," Duterte said.

Northern Davao South Agusan sub-regional command of the NPA spokesperson Aris Francisco said Rosales was apprehended while he was on the "process of arranging for the transit of logs."

"A sachet of (suspected) shabu was also found in his possession, proof that soldiers who are coddling big loggers in the province were also into the illegal drug trade," Francisco said.

"I leave it to his unit kung unsaon siya (It's up to his unit what to do with him)," Duterte said, adding that his assistance for the release is all about "humanitarian purposes."

However, Lieutenant Colonel Jacob Thaddeus Obligado, commander of the Army's 10th Infantry Division's Civil Military Operation Battalion, said they have yet to verify the report.

"It might be just another form of propaganda to justify the criminal act of kidnapping and abduction," Obligado told Sun.Star Davao in a text message.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
