
Share This Story!

Most infestations of invasive insects have been found by the public, so the Maine Forest Service has taken to the streets to ask for help.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Most infestations of invasive insects have been found by the public, so the Maine Forest Service is asking for help.

The Emerald Ash Borer is on our doorstep, raising concern among forestry officials.

LEWISTON, Maine (NEWS CENTER) -- Since 2002, the Emerald Ash Borer has spread in every direction from where it was first found in the Midwest, killing tens of millions of trees along the way.  Last year officials in New Hampshire discovered it in Concord, increasing fear that it soon will be wreaking havoc here in Maine.

"It is inevitable.  It will come to Maine at some point in time, if it is not already here and we just haven't found it," stated Colleen Teerling, a Maine Forest Service Entomologist who is on the front lines fighting to protect the state's ash trees.

"Emerald Ash Borer can kill a tree in three years," she explained.  "If nothing is being done to manage it, it could just fly through a city killing all of a community's street trees within a few years."

The invasive insect has few natural predators in North America, so detecting it before it establishes itself in the state will be one of the keys to controlling future infestations.

"We are hoping to find it early rather than late, because we have a whole lot more management options if we find it early," said Teerling.

Over the past few years, entomologists have hung purple traps in the canopies of ash trees, hoping to find the metallic green beetles before they gain a foothold.  They have also searched the nests on predatory wasps in hopes that they'll provide evidence of EAB in the area.

Most major infestations in other states have been found by the public, not the people employed to track them down, so this year the Maine Forest Service is doing something different, taking to the streets in several Maine communities to put up posters informing people about the insect.

"We're hoping that people will see that there is an insect that can potentially damage their trees, and we're hoping they'll see something and call the Forest Service to get proper identification, so it doesn't cause the type of damage that it has caused in other parts of the country," explained Steve Murch, Lewiston's City Arborist.

He has had volunteers help him hang dozens of the posters on ash trees on busy city streets, quiet neighborhoods and in public parks, hoping people will take the time to become educated about the issue.

"It will just spread and kill everything," he said.  "We have them planted in blocks up and down streets, so if something happens and the trees end up dying and have to all of a sudden be removed, those blocks will look devastated."

Project Canopy is helping with the effort, supplying information and signs to communities throughout the state in an effort to increase awareness about the Emerald Ash Borer.

"If they notice anything different, they can give us a call ," stated Jan Santerre, director of Project Canopy.  "Any time we lose part of our ecosystem, it is something that we should really care about."
