
Serbians fleeing flooding are helped by amateur radio operators who coordinate rescue missions.

Belgrade, Serbia - The hoarse but calm voice of rescuers is coming from a small device. They tell each other which parts of the town need to be visited, who needs to be evacuated and by what means. Although the floodwaters have receded, the tragedy is continuing - as is the fight to save human lives.

Nenad Supurovic is a member of the Radio Amateur Union of Serbia. Having listened to conversations of professional rescuers via radio, Supurovic and another union member headed for the town of Obrenovac, to help ease communication between rescuers and crisis staff. These radio amateurs transmit pieces of information received from crisis staff, such as who needs to be evacuated from flooded houses and apartments, and how.

Nenad Supurovic: I drove here in my own car. The road is passable up to a point. Where it isn't, the police don't let you through. We showed our radio transmitters and they immediately let us through, as if we were ministers of state. Of course we registered earlier at the crisis centre, saying we wanted to help. My brother, who is an activist, offered to programme their radio stations.

Supurovic: Well, there is the bridge where they bring evacuated people, then comes the roundabout towards which everybody is directed, and there is the Landmark Hotel, now a lodging for rescuers. Everything is flooded.

Supurovic: Nobody welcomed us. We went and reported to the radio amateur just finishing his shift; there were four of us. The first problem which occurred was that those who weren't radio amateurs couldn't remember their call signs. So we called each other Brother-1, Brother-2, Brother-3 and Brother-4. The four brothers. We were an alternative link for the rescuers. It meant the crisis centre sent us addresses [of people who needed to be evacuated], we informed the boat crew where to go, and each crew had to have a local who knew his way around.

Supurovic: We run to the boat when it arrives.

Supurovic: No, they don't. That's exactly where the radio amateurs kick in and make their contribution. We simply don't have enough equipment. When the boat arrives, we tell the crew where to go next. One radio station was given to the truck crew, the truck that picks up the people, because it can pick up many people. It advances fearlessly, like a tank.

Supurovic: Yes, when they bring them in the boats, they pass by me. We give them drinks, water. Many of them are hungry and thirsty. And when they get here, you can clearly see that some have already received water, because they decline it. And some of them come and drink with joy, because they were obviously thirsty; help hadn't reached them.

Supurovic: Most of them are in pretty good shape. At the beginning it looked like they were just really tired, like they'd spent the whole day on public transport. Only when you gave them water, food, some of them started to cry, they 'broke down' - because in a way, that was the point when they realised that because of that aid they were refugees.

If everyone did that, it would be a problem. That is something we can tolerate, but it's better if he leaves with rescue teams. There's electricity and phones in shelters. They can look for each other there, and it's easier to find someone there.

Supurovic: A man gets off the boat holding what I thought were two sheep under his arms. White, huge, I'm watching them and I can't believe what I'm seeing. Muzzles everywhere, black eyes too. It turns out they are dogs. Another man carries six Maltese, those little dogs - white, puffy-looking ones. All curly like lambs. And he has six of them - three under his left, three under his right arm. No bag, no laptop, he didn't bring any belongings like some others did. And when he got off the boat, a woman went past him, probably his wife, and she was holding three of the same Maltese. They had nine Maltese dogs and they were the only goods they saved. This is the most remarkable thing I remember.

Supurovic: I have no idea how they get around, and I do admire them. They have to have guides. I heard people talking over the radio about water levels being so high that you couldn't read the street name, or street number, and then people were saying - make a turn at that tree, they give each other specific details that they can use for orientation. They were looking for street numbers on other buildings so they had to guess where the number they were looking for was.

There is no one to ask, no passersby. Really, I take my hat off to them. It seems like mission impossible, but it still works.

More than one-quarter of Gaza's population has been displaced, causing a humanitarian crisis.

Italy struggles to deal with growing flood of migrants willing to risk their lives to reach the nearest European shores.

Content on this website is for general information purposes only.   Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect   liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to   use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community   Rules & Guidelines  and  Terms and   Conditions .
