
The Western back coup-meisters have refused to do anything that the Russians have suggested, obviously not wanting to really de-escalate.

The interim leaders came into power on the violence of their nationalists terror brigades, where once their leaders got into the parliament they started openly proclaiming what they were chaffing at the bit to do to East Ukraine...finish the job.

The Kiev thugs could not afford to distance themselves from their terror base until after the elections. To open talks with East Ukraine would have started a revolt in their own ranks to depose and replace them.

As for any leadership from the US and EU, all we have watched them do is provide a constant barrage of charges against the Russians simply as a smokescreen and to buy Kiev time to "validate" themselves on May 25th, and use their terror squads to purge their opposition prior to the election. That was obvious to everyone that wanted to see it.

NATO slimed themselves by hyping the Russian border threat, something they should be sanctioned for. During the major Russian maneuvers foreign observes were in attendance watching everything as they always do under the long established agreements. They all reported seeing not a shred of evidence of any invasion preparation.

Kiev initiated the escalation by moving armor into the East when the protestors only had a few small arms.

So NATO just invented such, leaving out that countries carry out drills inside their own borders all the time. NATO was running similar drills.

So they were lying to their own people back home, something I consider a dereliction of duty and an outside investigation is needed to tag the responsible culprits for hyping the threat.

With Putin’s move today he has set himself up once again to play rope-a-dope on all the charges the West will be making against sabotaging the elections, all things which the West itself is supremely guilty of causing.

So they will be hearing from us that our own leaders are acting in such a dangerous way to be considered national security threats to us themselves, far more than any of their spurious Russian claims.

Russia has urged the interim government in Kiev to immediately withdraw its troops from eastern Ukraine while ordering the end of drills by Russian forces in regions bordering Ukraine.

According to a Kremlin statement, released on Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for an end to what he described as the Kiev authorities’ “punitive operation” against pro-Russian activists in the eastern part of Ukraine.

Putin has also ordered Russian troops deployed in regions near Ukraine to go back to their bases, the statement added.

“Due to the end of the planned spring training of troops that included their movement to Rostov, Belgorod, and Bryansk regions, the Russian president ordered…troops participating in the drills to return to their permanent bases,” the statement read.

Some analysts believe the move appears to indicate the Russian president’s intention to de-escalate the ongoing crisis over Ukraine.

Earlier on Saturday, the Russian Foreign Ministry condemned the escalation of violence in eastern Ukraine, accusing the Kiev army of conducting military operations against its own citizens.

The acting Kiev government has been staging military operations in the eastern and southern provinces since mid-April in a bid to root out pro-Moscow demonstrations.

0 Reads,                        Filed under Editor , World .      You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 .           Both comments and pings are currently closed.

To post, we ask that you login using Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, or Hotmail in the box below.

Don't have a social network account? Register and Login direct with VT and post.

I don’t know is that truth or not but I hope it is.

Bartered : Enforcement. That's all. Enforcement of laws governing a Nations Sovereignty through the authority of, (in this case), the UN. Making it complicated only wastes time.

Yes, Very Happy!
