
ISLAMABAD: A joint session of parliament has been summoned on June 2 to kick-start the new parliamentary year amid apprehensions over rising political tempers in the country.

President Mamnoon Hussain, who has summoned the both houses to assemble together, will be delivering his first presidential speech, a mark to start the parliamentary year after his election as president in controversy-marred presidential election in July last year. President Mamnoon will highlight the achievements of the government and will give the guidelines for the future, as has been the tradition in the past.

President Mamnoon, often dubbed as docile by the political critics, would for the first time face parliament where he would meet a strong joint opposition. The first presidential address would also lay bare the intentions of the opposition, particularly the largest opposition group Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) as to whether it accepts him as president after their boycott of the presidential election over its rescheduling by the Supreme Court.

Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) took part in the presidential election, but its candidate was defeated. But the evolving political situation in recent months has changed the political scenario drastically, and now it is at odds with the PML-N government over alleged rigging in the general elections of the last year. The PTI has already started its agitation campaign against the alleged poll rigging, and the presidential address would give it another chance to forcefully raise it voice in parliament.

The party insiders, however, say it is too early to predict what course of action it would take in the presidential election. “The party would decide in the next few days about its strategy when it will hold its parliamentary party meeting,” an MNA of the party confided. On the other hand, parliamentary sources in the PPP opine that the party would hold its parliamentary meeting shortly to finalise its strategy for the joint session.Having the combined strength of around 100 senators and MNAs the PPP is the largest opposition party in parliament, while the PTI has the second highest seats in the National Assembly, but no representation in the Senate so far. It may be recalled that the last presidential address, immediately after the PML-N took power, was delivered by then president Asif Ali Zardari, and went smoothly.
