
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 11:13 am | Updated: 10:27 am, Tue May 20, 2014.

Update: No, not really. Dick called me this morning to tell me I got it wrong. Read all about it over here.  Alan Dick says he's already out of the running .

Original post: Last week Alan Dick, a former state rep. with a penchant for saying the sort of things that websites like Jezebel like to write about , has filed a letter of intent to run against moderate Fairbanks Republican Sen. Click Bishop.

Bishop had a rough go of things during his first two years in the Senate and was put in a spot where he was often the 11th (or in cases of some constitutional amendment votes, the 14th) vote on a load of controversial bills. More often than not, however, Bishop broke from the Republican core to team up with moderate Republicans and Democrats to defeat bills like the controversial House Bill 77, school vouchers and the judicial council. His office took a beating for it, but they're positions that will play well with moderates and many Alaska Native communities.

Bishop did, however, vote for the controversial Senate Bill 21, which isn't polling so well right now.

His positions might have lost Bishop support from the hard right, but with strong backing from labor and moderates (and, to a degree, Democrats) the Fairbanks senator will likely be well-funded for any battle Dick brings.

Along with baggage from controversial statements, Dick's time in the Legislature also included wrangling money for the highly unpopular Nenana Borough study. He has since distanced himself to the funding, saying that a staff member got him to fund it through an "outright lie" that borough formation would stave off being annexed by another borough.

So while the race might look like a long shot for Dick, don't write him off. The two will be competing in the closed Republican primary in a sprawling district that runs from Chena Ridge, through the Tanana Flats and into Salcha, then to the Canada border, then back up around the Interior villages and ending in the Denali Borough.

The expansive borough might play to Dick's advantage and is similar to the one that pulled off a surprise wing against longtime Rep. Woodie Salmon (a Democrat) in 2010. He won the mostly rural House district (which looks a lot like half of the in-question Senate District) by visiting nearly every village with the help of his plane.

Bishop has officially filed to run, while Dick is still in the letter of intent phase.

For the latest on Alaska politics, big and small, follow me on Twitter:  @FDNMpolitics .

Posted in Politics cache on Monday, May 19, 2014 11:13 am. Updated: 10:27 am.

We're always interested in what you're seeing and hearing around the community. Send us your news tips and best photos.

A daily digest of the top headlines in the Fairbanks Daily News-Miner.
