
In an interview with Bloomberg News Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov asserted that Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland had meetings with the Ukrainian neofascist group Right Sector in Washington DC. The Right Sector has been involved in numerous killings including the burning of pro-Russian supporters in Odessa.

“The other thing to which I wanted to get response from Washington was these reports about the secret visit of the Right Sector coordinator (Andrei) Artyomenko to Washington for alleged meetings with Victoria Nuland. And we want answers to these questions because it’s too serious to manipulate events in Europe across the Atlantic. It’s not a remote-control game. It’s very serious for us.” Lavrov said.

Whether Nuland met with Artyomenko or any other representative of the Right Sector to help with fundraising and support is unknown. What is known is that the US is supporting the gang in Kiev’s “interim government” which includes Svoboda an openly neofascist party which aligns itself historically and currently with the principles of Hitler’s Nazi party.

Lavrov also said he questioned US officials over claims made in the German press concerning the employment of mercenaries from companies such as Greystone and Academi (formerly Blackwater) in Ukraine. Lavrov said US officials never explicitly denied the charge but instead made counter-charges.

Today it has been reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian troops performing maneuvers on the Ukrainian border back to their permanent bases. Whether the troops will actually leave or stay back at base for long is unknown especially with the Ukrainian presidential elections still scheduled for May 25th.

George Carlin said it first and best.

Two links.

CrossTalk on development of multipolar world. I would quibble with Shakespeare (I think that’s who it was) who said that U.S. was trying to gain unipolar world. U.S. has had that since 1991. U.S. actions explained by trying to maintain it in light of its erosion.

More details on Odessa massacre . Victims were apparently tortured and murdered before being burned.

sure is interesting, in a sickening way, that dual citizen Nuland (PNAC Kagan’s wife) is so cozy with the Ukrainian natzi’s.  the only thing i can glean from the current situation is that the bank, ag, fracking, et.al. corps trump national governments and humans in this global endgame.

i also continue to object to calling corps “companies” which has been a term always used for groups of humans in contrast to  liability-dodging paper fabrications.

Relax, everybody.  According to esteemed historian Jonah Goldberg (and subsequently echoed by all true righties), Nazis are actually socialists (National Socialist, ya see, says it all, cuz political namings are never misleading).

So, Obama is actually (FINALLY!) advancing the socialist agenda by getting into bed with the Nazis in the Ukraine.

Upon observation, the prefix “neo” seems to be used for a revival of an older doctrine in a different context.

National Socialists was, according to a history course I listened to , carefully chosen name meant to appeal to German citizens as widely as possible & to hide the party’s agenda.

Desperate indeed. Sort of amateurish, too.

The first real fireworks in the celebration of a new Eurasian century-in-the-making light the sky this week when Russian President Vladimir Putin drops in on Chinese President Xi Jinping. As the two leaders seal a “Pipelineistan” of energy deals, look no further than the difference between China’s focus on economic ties versus the US global military-first strategy for a measure of relative rise and decline.

Nor are the forward deployment of US or NATO troops in Eastern Europe or other such Cold-War-ish acts likely to deter Moscow from a careful balancing act: ensuring that Russia’s sphere of influence in Ukraine remains strong without compromising trade and commercial, as well as political, ties with the European Union – above all, with strategic partner Germany. This is Moscow’s Holy Grail; a free-trade zone from Lisbon to Vladivostok, which (not by accident) is mirrored in China’s dream of a new Silk Road to Germany.

That’s from Nuland’s wiki.  The woman is serving at the pleasure of BHO.  He – or the people holding his strings – is obviously pleased with what she has been doing.

eCHAN @ 3:  the odessa massacre is a very chilling read.

very curious alliance between some israelis and the natzis; i guess when you act like natzis, you become them.

Rise of Russia-China does not necessarily mean U.S. demise.

Two of the great leaders of 20C realized that empire is toxic, at home and abroad. Building a powerful & prosperous nation state would be better in most respects. They were Ataturk & deGaulle.

U.S. does not seem to have such a person, but it’s a model.

It’s about power not ideology. Zionists have created an industry out of victimhood. That ploy has successfully hidden their agenda for decades.

There is palace intrigue in O regime. At least 2 factions. Hard to figure from the outside how the inside jockies.

That’s the best explanation I’ve seen for the apparent chaos.

It took awhile to figure out how to express it. I tried to define who were in the two factions that are easily identified: necons & r2ps. That’s a longer & less clear story. In working thru this on a thread, onitgoes came up with “palace intrigue,” which is perfect. Deflates the emotional reaction bc it places context in history.

Both factions should be fired, but that’s a different matter.

He’s the leading candidate, but idols often develop feet of clay so withholding judgement.

Ataturk, unifying diverse population deliberately created by colonialists drawing divisive (two meanings intended) lines on a map, was a military strongman. Had to use force to create a nation state. Also made it secular to avoid sectarian strife and the transition to secular was not pacific either.

I read a bio of Ataturk several years ago. One of those “he was born here, then he did this, then he did thats.” Have come to realize since why his life was transformative of Turkey.

I think our leaders are going for “toxic.” Not an Ataturk or deGaulle in the bunch, unfortunately for us.

Toxic is already here. Economic depression, defunct political system.

1.

2.

You just have to read Mein Kampf (now conveniently available on Kindle) to realize that National Socialism was genuinely “netional” (national in German can probably best be translated “nationalist”) as well as socialist in Hitler’s peculiar sense.  Hitler genuinely believed that Marxist Social Democracy had succeeded in seducing German workers from the national cause because their employers were so selfish and oppressive.  Hitler regarded it as one of his most important tasks to reclaim German workers for the national cause.

Because of the circumstances in which Hitler came to power (through an alliance with the political right and the propertied classes), policies in the early years of Hitler’s rule were rather conservative economically and pro-employer.  That was what was thought necessary to consolidate power.  However, you just have to read Goebbels’s diaries to realize how much the ideologists of Nazism despised their political allies of the right, and in the last years of Nazi rule, during the war, this radicalism came increasingly to the fore.

China has also shown little interest in imperialism.  One of their leaders has in fact written that Germany’s mistake in the early 20th century was to concentrate too much on the military and imperial expansion, that, if she had concentrated on the economy and on education and learning, Germany’s rise to the top of the heap of nations could not have been stopped, and that his country, China, is very much aware of this cautionary example.

Then, there’s Iran, which may not be quite a world power, but is certainly a regional one, and has shown no interest at all in terriorial expansion.

Thinking about the details of Odessa massacre, second link at 3.

It is too elaborate and too well executed not to have been planned and drilled (rehearsed) many times, in every aspect, in advance.

So far, on China, Iran & Russia. But there will be plenty of time to address the issue should it arise.

A propaganda tactic of U.S. is to accuse the “other” of committing the criminal act that the U.S. is guilty of. For example, U.S. has filed espionage charges against Chinese hackers. Russia’s solidifying its legal interests & unanimous direct democracy referendum is called empire building.

Very sad bu interesting link.

It’s my understanding it’s only hacking when other people do it to us.

setting buildings on fire with people trapped inside. Nazis have done that before.

etc.

And on the face of, it’s a nonsensical name. Nationalist socialism? That’s a contradiction, obviously. Kinda like “compassionate conservatism” or “lesser of two evils”.

It shows and I enjoyed your perspective.

Hope you  hang around, we need more like you.

So I see Lurch and Superfly have started in on sanctions against the Chinese*.

Interesting thoughts.

Ukrainian Nazis did that at Khatyn , and not just to Jews. Russians have not forgotten this.

Maybe this one he will keep for,himself. 2016  is coming fast.

I think Germany started down the wrong road with the death of Bismarck. Bismarck understood that the proper international regime for the European continent was a balance between the major powers. After he died, Germany started aspiring to become the unquestionably dominant continental power. Perhaps the Germans underestimated how strongly England would resist that project.

It’s how Britain has managed to stay global powerhouse for 500 years though it is a tiny island.

One important thing to remember about Jewish American neo-cons such as Nuland is that, while they take hawkish positions on Israel/Palestine, they do this only as part of their overarching aim of promoting American imperialism.

Victory lap; my computer guy cleaned up add-ons that were making popups & other ad-interferes infuriating.

Aha, I was wondering about Israel’s abstention.

Then it’s not socialism, comrade. The term for that is, um, I believe: bullshit. Made-up bullshit.

Sort of like what happened at Sabra and Shatila.

Sorry, no edit function.

Nevertheless, socialism or not, it made common German soldiers so enthusiastic about the regime that the medieval historican <a href="Mark Bloch attributes the German victory over France in 1940 to the high morale of the German army.

Failed again.

Nevertheless, socialism or not, it made common German soldiers so enthusiastic about the regime that the medieval historican Mark Bloch attributes the German victory over France in 1940 to the high morale of the German army.

Admittedly, it’s a lot quicker for news to travel from the Kremlin to RT or Voice of Russia.

Just like the Poles have not forgotten Katyn .

For you and me maybe but most people no.

My bold.

the US dollar remains the top global reserve currency, involving 33% of global foreign exchange holdings at the end of 2013, according to the IMF. It was, however, at 55% in 2000.

To me, that looks like a pretty rapid decline. Evidently, the 2013 figure comes from this pdf file . The corresponding figure for euros is 13%. Unallocated reserves (“reserves data, whose currency composition has [not] been identified”) rose by 1.5% from 2012 IQ to 2014 IVQ, when they made up 47% of total reserves.

To me, it seems a bit weird that the currencies in which almost have of world reserves are held are unknown. Looks pretty nontransparent to me.

Related problem.

I worked with international balance of payments data in the 1990s. The size of the error (difference between ways data are collected from different countries in different currencies, goods & services exchanged internationally at different Xrates at diff times when Xrates float, settlement dates diff from dates of transactions, complicated financial flows like derivatives, whether countries report honestly, to illustrate a few of the gnaty & unsolvable problems), made the reconciliation error larger than the surpluses or deficits of most countries.

I was looking at trends, especially the increasing accumulation of U.S. treasuries by developing countries, esp China, India. I could ignore the error in that pursuit.

However, the casual observer should not pick #s & cite them. Tricky business.

I presented a table in every handout I used in presentations, including a column that showed the reconciliation error. Got NO questions about it.

The goal was for Putin to crash into Eastern Ukraine that would give the EU/NATO/US Troika the reason to spike the Silk Road Eurasian connection.

Putin won’t put his neck in the noose. Obvious this has been in the works for months and hopefully this week it will be unfurled.

It’s why Superfly went to Asia last month to try and sign up Phillipines, Malaysia and re-militarizing Japan.

Thanks, for that info….

Odessa massacre was planed & rehearsed in all its details for years; my 26. Too complicated to pull off without elaborate preparations.

The idea of the deposed Sultan died hard in the Islamic world. Caused lots of problems in Post WW I via the Khilafat movement that untilimately led to the bifurcation of India into the twin wings of Pakistan.

German news media are mentioning the Russian journalists being held by Kjiv.

German media filters information from the Ukraine somewhat less than US media do. A case in point is that the FAZ mentioned that it, along with six other news organizations, did an informal poll on the day of the independence referendum in Donetsk, and that that poll was consistent with the referendum results. But there has been a complete news blackout about that, other than that one story. None of the other six news organizations mentioned that a small poll was taken, as far as I know.

German newspapers and weeklies, such as der Spiegel and die Süddeutsche Zeitung, follow the line put forward by the Empire just as much as conservative papers do. It took me a while to get used to that.

Most countries wait until they are countries before launching imperialist stratagems. Colonies attacked Quebec before there was a U.S. in pursuit of cordon sanitaire, or to put a negative spin on it, lebensraum.

I was able to access it this morning.

There was a time when I had a hard time getting presstv live, ditto recently for RT. Think the latter two were my computer with unwanted ad-ons being put on it bc I didn’t know what I was doing when I updated flash.

MoA & FDL problems more likely updating issues. Saw a sentence to that effect on FDL.

What does it mean? I c fess I have no idea.

In-depth analysis required to know what that means. See 64.

Actually seems to be full interview.

What a tangled mess. Putin’s Russia is now essentially of the right also now. I won’t use the ‘f’ word. Uncomfortably, and sadly, Russian official rhetoric on Ukraine is more true than US/EU/NATO’s.

It would have been nice if what the last three had been offering  Ukraine was clearly superior to what Russia was offering. I suppose on some very long term it might or could have been but in the meantime what we were offering was Greek style austerity and dictatorship by bankers who would buy up everything worth buying. The neo liberal dead end.

The only liberals were many of the original protesters  in the square who wanted more freedom especially freedom from corrupt oligarchs. All well and good but the freedom to freeze and go hungry while bankers divy up the place  was a sad sort of freedom.

Pepe’s analyses are so often right on target. I find his view of this very convincing. US (w/NATO) is doing its darndest to make this a hot, long-lasting war like Afghanistan. But its economy is so close to total collapse, while China (especially) is in a comparatively strong position, that this will prove to be its Achilles Heel.

Frankly, this is what I hope for most, horrible as the financial collapse might be. The alternative is to chance nuclear war. Then, no matter how much money anyone has, there will be nothing left to spend it on.

Fair enough. But essentially the Han have been given homestead privileges similar to the Homesteading of the US where you got 160 acres if you sodbusted the land.

Technology had outpaced earlier forms of warfare. It was too late to gift area residents blankets infected with smallpox.

The interviewer is incredibly hostile and aggressive. Lavrov, in contrast, is incredibly relaxed.

In his RT interview, Lavrov struck me clearly dismayed by what was happening in the Ukraine, and pretty edgy.

Yes. Interviewer interrupted Lavrov, Lavrov didn’t get impatient. Lavrov knew interviewer, at one point Lavrov said something to effect: You kinow Russia, you lived there for many years. Lavrov was up on his facts, figures, dates, happenings. Interviewer responded with: Yes but can you work with, can you put up with, what do you want, blah blah.

Both in that interview & Assad’s with Barbara Walters, the answers of L or A were: that is up to the Ukrainian/Syrian people. Wasn’t credible to interviewer who thought that it was odd notion that people should have a choice.

When in 2012 the time came to replace the fuel assemblies, Ukrainian nuclear engineers found that Westinghouse assemblies deformed during exploitation and got stuck in the core.

And European politicians are helpless to protect their citizens from another nuclear disaster.

By the way, my recollection of how Chernobyl happened was that the local Ukrainian reactor operators decided to do a test on their own, instead of strictly following instructions issued by Moscow, as they were supposed to do.

Those Russkies, still have those crazy Commie ideas.

And when will they learn that Russia is just a local power? Superfly himself has said so.

Hoping to force Russia & China into an arranged marriage, no doubt.

Did you noticed that karenij2 suggested Putin as a statesman of the 21C (16)? Definition of statesman in this context is a leader who recognizes that empire is toxic at home & for colonialists. That strong nation-states are more prosperous economically and politically than meddling in others’ affairs.

Ataturk and deGaulle, who gave up empires, are the two from the 20C.

He’s on my short list, but too soon to tell.

The other matter to note is that U.S. isn’t just playing the China & Russia cards all at once. Still involved in MENA, trying to push China out of Africa by establishing military bases in every country, pushing ahead with VZ destabilization, put Myanmar back on enemies’ list, others I can’t remember right now.

Get everyone everywhere all at once, while going bankrupt at home.

It’s a plan.

My recollection is that the Ottoman Empire disappeared because it was defeated by the British and French in World War I, not because Ataturk “gave it up”. And given the continued occupation of Cyprus, I don’t see how one can claim that the Turks have given up their imperial ways.

if Kurds were no different from Turks, whatever their language, customs or sense of themselves, what defined the indivisible identity of the two? Tacitly, it could only be what Kemalism could no longer admit, but with which it could never dispense – religion. There were still tiny Christian and Jewish communities in the country, preserved essentially in Istanbul and its environs, and in due course these would be subjected to treatment that made it clear how fundamental the division between believers and unbelievers continued to be in the Kemalist state. But though Islam delimited the nation, it now did so in a purely negative way: it was the covert identity that was left, after every positive determination had been subtracted, in the name of homogeneity. The result has been that Turkish secularism has always depended on what it repressed.

A ruler who took to drink in despair at the ultimate sterility of his rule: that, at any rate, is one conjecture to be heard among critical spirits in Turkey today.

Ataturk could have made conscious decision to continue to fight for empire but didn’t. Empires die 10s of deaths, to subsequently rise from the dead for awhile.

Ottoman empire’s history is as byzantine as Byzantine empire. Ataturk correctly perceived that as black hole.

Preferable to look at outcomes, not inputs.

I don’t think statesmen should commit acts of genocide or suppress their nation’s authentic identity, basing it instead on myths spun out of thin air.

Kemeralism didn’t take. Hence Morsi’s Islamicism.

Sorry, that’s Kemalism , not Kemeralism.

Watching Super Fly now. Never saw it before.

If you are going to exclude political leaders who commit “genocide”, there goes Washington & Lincoln.

What was the “authentic” identity of Turkey, a nation drawn by lines on a map purposely designed to divide & conquer.

Ataturk turned sectarian divisionism into secular unification. Unification was not peaceful, rarely is in difficult circumstances.

I can’t understand why you seem to be such a big fan of Turkey. It is occupying to this day a European country, and supporting Salafist terrorists in Syria. It’s leader is an out of control megalomaniac and authoritarian, yet his party keeps getting majorities.

I don’t hold up the US as a model, so saying that Turkey is not much worse than the US is not an impressive argument for me.

If a nation can’t build its identity on an authentic culture, it simply shouldn’t exist. Building a society on lies never leads to good results in the long run.

You said before that you watch PressTV. I might start doing that too, because I respect Iranian culture. I think Asghar Farhadi is one of the best living directors. I tried to watch a Turkish movie once , and found it so boring that I couldn’t finish it.

As a curiosity, French-American war of 1763.

I listened to book on subject. Don’t remember it well. Take memory fwiw. Not going to look it up at this hour.

Washington was surveyor on Brit side. Committed every trick then known. For example, some area was French controlled. West of Appalachians. Bargain was that French control was to be geography that could be covered by someone who could traverse it in a period of time. French assumed it would be someone walking but Washington paid Amerindian who could jog it in designated period.

Whatever.

Anyhow, book argued, French pop that was displaced was larger than in American revolution.

Erdogan is U.S. NATO puppet. Muslim Brotherhood CIA plant. Abrogating nation-state that Ataturk established.

Not defending or reverse what is required to establish defensible & prosperous nation state.

Assessing circumstances at the time.

I asked what is the authentic culture of Turkey, divided in culture, religion, ethnicity from its start. Most modern nation-states are. You didn’t answer my question.

Success as a leader is unification in difficult circumstances.

Iran is 70% Persian. Who are the 30%? How have they been treated over time. Not just now, but earlier.

You seem to take a binary view of history. Zbig would be proud. Only tiny enclaves of ethnically, racially, religiously homogeneous people are allowed to defend their purity.

When Russia conquered territory, it did not have to kill or expel the people who lived there, the way the English settlers of North America did, or the way Kemal did in order to consolidate his state.

Zbig does not understand how the Russian Empire solved the multiethnicity problem because he is a Polish nationalist, and hence cannot see anything good in Russian history.

Germany, which you cite, would not be an example for most. Linguistically homogeneous but only religiously diverse (and there’s several stories behind that) not defensible for your hypothesis.

Even when there is a clear majority, like white males in U.S. antebellum, absence of conflict is not guaranteed.

I really am not qualified to answer that question, since I can’t relate to the problem (I can only relate to the US, major European countries, and Japan, with China growing on me) and know little of the relevant history.

In my view, the preferable solution to the problem you pose is to set up a secular, socialist, authoritarian state, along the lines of Syria and Iraq before the US/UK destroyed it; this avoids ethnic cleansing combined with genocide and inventing false national histories, destroying one’s authentic cultural identity in the process.

As for Cromwell, the English solved the problem of how Catholics and Protestants can live together by inventing liberalism, while the Germans solved it a bit later with the Treaty of Westphalia, which formed the basis of the modern nation-state, a concept which the Anglo-American empire has been in the process of subverting, starting with the destruction of Yugoslavia.

I don’t really know anything about Ireland other than having read Joyce and having been into U2.

Tito is categorized as Authoritarian, not visionary.

Yes, that is correct, according to my understanding as well.  Our industrialists who all tended to support Hitler were doing so in hopes that his hatred for Communism would deter our unions from getting too uppity.

Of course, for Jonah, truth in packaging trumps all, so if the word “Socialist” was used, that must mean they were actually socialists.

Sometimes I wonder why I ever studied logic.
