
MANILA, Philippines - Our body operates 24/7 and like a machine, it requires tuning up once in a while to get it back to its original orientation. On the surface, shooting pain on the lower back, muscle aches, and stiff neck might be signs of excessive fatigue and stress, but on a deeper level, it is our body’s way of telling us that something is off beam and that it needs to be corrected immediately. And while our first instinct is to have a massage to ease the pain and discomfort, it actually takes more than simple kneading and pulling to fix the problem.

At Karada, expert therapists focus on the proper alignment of the body while restoring its natural balance by applying precise pressure on various points of the human body. The salon has its roots in Japan and employs ancient techniques known for their therapeutic and wellness benefits.

A Japanese term that means “body,” Karada is the newest body therapy center to open in the Philippines at the third level of the new Glorietta Wing in Ayala, Makati City; Greenbelt Radissons, Legaspi Village, Makati City;  and at the second floor, Serendra, Bonifacio High Street.  By the end of this year, new Karada branches will open in the Alabang area and another one in Makati City,

“We offer revitalization of both mind and body through AP Balance, an original technique from Japan”, says Rejana M. Stelton, Karada general manager.

Thus, while many wellness centers offer various services meant to pamper and invigorate,

Karada boasts a clinical approach to addressing stress-related discomfort and malfunctions that, to some extent, may prevent some diseases and illnesses at the outset. Clients of Karada will feel instant relief.

Among the services offered are: the Atlas and Pelvis Balance (AP Balance), a choice list of body treatments (BT), and a combination of  AP and BT for a full Karada experience.

AP Balance focuses on the atlas (neck and shoulders), and the pelvis, which is the base of the body, and entails realigning the pelvic position to its natural state, resulting in improved posture and balance as well as noticeable relief from back pains.

The Karada treatment can last from 20 minutes (Energizer) to 45 minutes (therapeutic) to 60-90 minutes (The Bliss), with prices ranging from P395 to P1,995 per session.
