
Philippine security forces caught a bomb expert of the al-Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf Saturday morning after raiding an hideout here in the west coast of Zamboanga City.

Abu Jomar was arrested around 7am Saturday during a raid by the joint elements of Task Force Zamboanga (TFZ) and Zamboanga City Police Office (ZCPO) at 5th Street, Southcom Village.

Captain Maria Rowena Muyuela, public information officer of the Western Mindanao Command, said Abu Jomar is a member of the Abu Sayyaf group and an Improvised Explosive (IED) expert of the terrorist group.

She said joint military and police troops arrested Jomar following an intensive monitoring of the presence of terrorist bomber in the area and on the strength of arrest warrant issued by TRC 9 Executive Judge Gregorio Dela Peña III.

A cellular phone, electrical wirings, tapes and blasting caps were recovered by the raiding troops from the possession of the militant Abu Sayyaf bomb expert, however it is not known whether explosive was found from the suspect’s den.

According to Muyuela, the captured Abu Sayyaf bomb expert is now under the under the custody of Zamboanga City Police Office for further interrogation and proper disposition.

“Government forces are intensifying law enforcement operations in order to eliminate criminal activities through expeditious arrest of remaining leaders and members of the Abu Sayyaf group and other lawless elements,” she added.

Abu Sayyaf, which is on a U.S. list of terrorist organizations, has had link with al-Qaida foreign terrorist network led by Osama bin Laden.

It is notorious for bombings, extortion, kidnappings and beheadings, and has targeted foreign missionaries and tourists in the south.

The group is currently led by Radulan Sahiron who is operating on Jolo island believed to be holding foreign hostages in their Sulu jungle bases, including two European bird watchers, who were abducted two years ago in Tawi-Tawi.

A Chinese tourist and a Filipino hotel worker who were recently kidnapped by the militants from a dive resort in Malaysia’s Sabah state and two foreign German nationals who went missing in Palawan have also reportedly been brought to an Abu Sayyaf encampment in Sulu.

Despite U.S.-backed Philippine military offensives, huge ransom payments have allowed the militants to survive and finance their kidnap-for-ransom operations and terror attacks.
