
A gang of four fugitives - three men and a woman - had an extra addition in the form of a baby by the time they were captured by police.

Veronika Doulova, 36, gave birth to a child while she was on the run after breaking out of prison over a year ago.

Appearing in the dock of a court in the western Russian city of Novgorod this week, she declined to say which of the  escapees - Nikolai Xilouev, 40, Mixail Gerlekov, 42, and Kiril Tyrashov,  37 - fathered the baby girl, although it is believed she had a  relationship with all of them.

She told the court: 'We were on the run, I was desperate and lonely and wanted to be with someone.

The judge  in the case said: 'I realise that this is highly unusual but the child  was born to you while you were at liberty.

She told the court: 'We were on the run, I was desperate and lonely and wanted to be with someone'

'I believe it should stay  with you when you go back to jail.'

Baby Galya will spend time with her mother in jail.

Gerlekov told the judge: 'We all love this child as if it were our own and we all want to take care of it in our own way.'

The fugitives are to serve their remaining sentences for theft and absconding from justice.

They will be released in six months time and the three men have promised to remain in contact with Doulova and have pledged to carry out babysitting duties.

'I think that all of them think they may be the father,' said a prison official.

'The mother doesn't know and they don't.

'Only a DNA test could resolve it, but there are worse things for a child than having three doting dads.'

The case echoes that of the 1987 film Three Men and a Baby in which three bachelors find themselves forced to take care of a baby left by one of their girlfriends.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
