
The Capital Development Authority (CDA) is likely to initiate inquiries into two recently unearthed scandals related to its environment wing.

The first involves the sale of 1,080 metric tons of paper mulberry wood at throwaway prices and without competitive bidding. Some 70 truckloads were sold for a nominal amount — Rs50,000.

The trees were cut from areas around the Presidency in 2012 due to security concerns.

“The case was approved by the then-deputy director general environment and the work order was issued by the then-deputy director of Aiwan-e-Sadr,” a source privy to the developments said.

He said the whole case was processed in haste and Public Procurement Regulatory Authority rules were not followed. The rules require disposal of such trees through an open auction. The official said an inquiry was initiated earlier, but was later abandoned for reasons unknown.

The incumbent management is considering initiating a fresh inquiry into the case, the official added.

There are no checks and balances at the environment wing when it comes to the sale of trees which fall naturally or are removed from CDA-administered forests.

Recently, questions were raised over the transparency of bidding, where 350 trees of different precious species were sold at a nominal price during an auction collectively managed by a cartel of wood dealers and some CDA officials. The 350 trees were removed from the Urban Jungle-I and Urban Jungle-II areas.

The second case is related to a tree plantation drive carried out in 2010.

In 2010, the CDA hired services of a private contractor to carryout plantation drive on behalf of the CDA along the Islamabad Highway. The scope of work on the Rs17million contract involved planting 500,000 saplings and their protection for a period of three years.

The scope of work also included installation of 2,000 poles and fencing to support and protect the saplings.

In 2012, when there should have been some 50,000 two-year old saplings at the site, the authority following an inquiry found some 35,000 missing. Incidentally, the area was also not fenced and some 1,400 supporting poles were also missing.

During the inquiry, the contractor admitted the mistake and pledged to plant the remaining saplings at the site, but it never followed up, said an official who was part of the probe team. The inquiry officers had also suggested withholding the outstanding amount due to the contractor and its security deposit.

However, in 2013 the contractor, allegedly in connivance with CDA officers, managed to get the outstanding Rs5.5 million released. In February 2014, the security deposit was also released to the firm. Interestingly, the entire record for the project has disappeared from the CDA, the official added. CDA officials  said separate inquiries into the cases would be launched.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
