
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

The Russian opposition, however, considers the idea of a “traditional” Russia as farcical. Leading opposition figures like Alexey Navalny have been  circulating an image  meant to mock the idea that Russia is in a position to teach Europe anything. The image uses Wurst and the Tolmachevy sisters as avatars of Austria and Russia respectively, and mockingly puts “prosperity,” spirituality,” and “traditional values” under Russia and “Gayrope,” “decline,” and “degradation” under Austria. There is then a small table with a few health and economic statistics (the abortion rate, the murder rate, and average life expectancy) which show that Austria is much richer, healthier, and safer than Russia.

The unstated but obvious conclusion is that, since Russia’s levels of crime and vice are so high, only a really dimwitted or corrupt person could possibly support the Russian government’s emphasis on traditionalism. While I myself have been skeptical and even contemptuous of the Kremlin’ effort to promote “values,” I think it’s a huge mistake to assume that everyone involved in this effort is either a fool or a knave. Why? Because if you look at the long-term trends in Russia the country really is changing in a way that traditionalists would favor. Yes the absolute levels of murder, abortion, and mortality are still quite high, but they’re much lower than they were just a few years ago. The trends are extremely positive.

I personally think that “moral issues” are none of the government’s business and that a quick glance at history clearly shows that the risks of the government doing too much to promote “morality” vastly exceed those of it doing too little. However if, like many Russians, you do think that the state has a role to play in supporting marriage, the family, and the church, it is not at all irrational or crazy to support Putin. By and large traditionalists seem to understand that there is no magic formula for undoing seventy years of Soviet communism, and are prone to think about the moral issues confronting on a timeline that spans decades. Russia, in this view, might not yet be a citadel of traditionalism, but it’s easy to see how it could become one at some point in the future. They will focus on the trends, on where Russia is heading, not on where it is this second.

Opposition to the Kremlin’s push on “values” is entirely justified: the campaign has, inevitably, been associated with deeply reactionary and regressive social forces. But those of us who oppose government meddling in moral issues should understand what it is we’re arguing against, and we should take seriously the arguments put forward by the other side. When you look not at the level of abortions in Russia but at the trajectory, the idea that Russia could be a bullwark of traditionalism looks a lot less funny and a lot more serious.
