
Before you go, find personalized sample ballots and your polling location on the secretary of state’s “My Voter Page” website ( www.mvp.sos.ga.gov ). If you mailed in an absentee ballot, you can also check that site to see whether it has been received.

If you’re already out, you can check the same information on the state’s new “GA Votes” mobile apps. You can download the free apps for both Apple and Android operating systems using either the iTunes app store for an iPhone or iPad, or Google Play for Android .

Georgia requires voters to show photo identification when they vote in person. Approved forms of identification include a Georgia driver’s license, even if it’s expired; a state-issued voter identification card; a valid U.S. passport; and a valid U.S. military photo ID.

Because the state conducts an “open” primary, voters may vote on the ballot of any party — you make your choice at the polls. You cannot, however, vote in more than one party’s primary.

So, once you pick a ballot, you have to stick with that same political party even if there is a runoff (in other words, you can’t cast a Republican ballot in the main primary but then vote in a Democratic runoff).

If you see or experience problems, first contact your local elections office. If local officials can’t help, the secretary of state’s office has an online complaint form via the “elections” tab at www.sos.ga.gov.

Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
