
Manila – In light of the concerns of critics on the legality of the Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro (CAB), Government of the Philippines (GPH) Legal Team head Atty. Anna Tarhata Basman affirmed that the Philippine Constitution has been the paramount basis of the CAB which is now translated into a draft Bangsamoro Basic Law that will be submitted to Congress for passage this year.

According to Basman, Article X of the Philippine Constitution, which contains provisions on autonomous regions served as the basis for the Bangsamoro's ministerial form of government. “The general guideline it provided for the structure of government of an autonomous region is that the executive and legislative branch of the autonomous government must be elective and representative of the constituent political units."

She said that the republican form of government is entrenched in the Constitution. However, the exact form and mechanism to derive citizen’s representation in the government is not specifically prescribed in the Supreme Law and so it does not exclude other structures of representative democracy.

As to the retention of the President’s general supervision over autonomous regions, Atty. Basman said this will continue in the Bangsamoro which respects the power of the national government and national sovereignty. She said that like what has been exercised by the current Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM), the future Bangsamoro government that will replace it will also have devolved powers to regulate its constituent Local Government Units (LGUs).

“This progressive and enlightened section recognizes the uniqueness of the peoples belonging to these areas and provides for their rightful exercise of self-governance. The Bangsamoro Basic Law as the enabling law for the establishment of the Bangsamoro precisely aims to operationalize this constitutional objective,” she said.

Meanwhile, lawmakers such as Cagayan de Oro Representative Rufus Rodriguez and Magdalo Party-List Representative Francisco Ashley "Ace" Acedillo also affirmed the constitutionality of the CAB during a weekly press briefing held at the House of Representatives. Rep. Rodriguez reiterated that the CAB only provides for enhanced autonomy, negating claims that it creates an independent state.
