
Sun-starved Brits made the most of the hottest day of the year by flocking to the sizzling city.

Brighton and Hove glistened in the sunshine as thousands of people enjoyed temperatures of more than 19 degrees Celsius over the weekend.

Residents and tourists made their way to the famous shingle seafront, illustrated by queues of cars on the A23 trying to get into the city.

But it wasn’t just sun-worshipers who celebrated the rising mercury as local traders and businesses welcomed scores of extra customers.

Seb Cole, of Boho Gelato Italian Ice Cream in Pool Valley, said he sold about 1,000 ice-creams on Saturda.

He said: “It’s been amazing.

“We had the mini rally taking place on Sunday too so that’s helping things move along.

“We’ve already had a great last six weeks which makes up for a wet March and April last year.

Elsewhere, a pair of university graduates launched their latest business venture – alcoholic lollies.

Harry Stimpson and Noah Greeves, both 23, showcased their cocktail-flavoured lollies on Brighton beach yesterday.

The ice-cool business women scooped £25,000 in an enterprise competition and won grants from the Prince’s Trust to launch the lollies, called Mahiki LIC, in Pina Colada or Mojito flavours.

Their formula was developed with professors at Nottingham University and allows alcohol to be frozen at 15 percent ABV (alcohol by volume). Each lolly is the equivalent of drinking a glass of wine.

Experts predict the glorious weather will continue today with temperatures of 21 degrees forecast. But showers and grey skies will arrive later in the week.

"Residents and tourists made their way to the famous shingle seafront, illustrated by queues of cars on the A23 trying to get into the city."

Really?  I thought the parking charges were too high, the town was falling apart and nobody was visiting Brighton anymore!

&quot;Residents and tourists made their way to the famous shingle seafront, illustrated by queues of cars on the A23 trying to get into the city." Really? I thought the parking charges were too high, the town was falling apart and nobody was visiting Brighton anymore!

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
