
STUDENT activists who disrupted the ABC and jostled Foreign Minister Julie Bishop have vowed to continue protesting Budget cuts despite arrests at   Sunday’s rally in Sydney.

Their defiance came as several churchmen were arrested in a protest at the Prime Minister’s electorate office.

Organisers from the Education Action Network plan to burn copies of the Budget at a protest tomorrow.

“We will continue to raise our voice against these budget cuts,” former network convener Evan Gray said.

He attended all the recent protests, including the heckling that disrupted the ABC’s Q & A program, the jostling of Ms Bishop and Sunday’s sit-down at Central Station as 10,000 people marched.

She returned to deliver her address once the protesters had been ejected.

And a Catholic priest and several pastors were arrested but released without charge yesterday after a three-hour peaceful prayer vigil in Prime Minister Tony Abbott's Manly electoral office.

The group hoped to secure a promise from Mr Abbott to release 1023 children held in Australian-run immigration detention centres.

Reverend Brian Brown, the Uniting Church’s moderator in NSW, was among those removed. “Morally, it is up to people like myself as a church leader to take a stand on issues such as asylum seekers,” he said.

One of the 13 protesters arrested on Sunday, TAFE student Mish Powell, said yesterday that her glasses were smashed and her wrist hurt as riot police pulled her away from other protesters engaged in a sit-on on a road.

“We are just students trying to stop these budget cuts,” she said. “We were chanting and didn’t hear them tell us to move on — they weren’t loud enough.

Ms Powell faces court on June 26.

Student organisers say they will continue confronting Liberal politicians wherever they can over plans to cut HECS payments and allow universities to set fees.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
