
Why Elon Musk, others should build rocket engines in C. Fla.

The next frontier in Central Florida's space industry could be manufacturing rockets here.

Since Russia doesn't want to play nice with NASA and the U.S.' space goals, it may be time to look elsewhere for help — specifically, maybe SpaceX founder Elon Musk or one of his other competitors in the U.S. commercial space industry.

The politics behind the Russia/U.S. space situation can be a mess, but what is known right now is Russia doesn't want to participate in the International Space Station anymore — which leaves U.S. astronauts without a ride into orbit — and they are reportedly threatening to ban exporting Russian-made RL-180 rockets to the U.S.

Either way, a huge Central Florida business opportunity arises from Russia's cold shoulder — that is, if anyone is up to taking the leap. "We should immediately start a factory in the U.S. to produce a variant of that engineand not be dependent on the Russians to control that supply," said Frank DiBello , president and CEO of Space Florida , the region's agency for promoting the Florida space industry.

DiBello told me there's a short list of companies in Florida — none in Central Florida — that can fully manufacture rocket engines.

Companies like SpaceX, which launches rockets from Cape Canaveral, have their own engines, but those are built in facilities outside of the state.

Requests for a comment from SpaceX and reaching out to Musk via Twitter — i thought it was worth a shot — were not returned.

However, a rocket manufacturing plant in Central Florida — whether brought here by a company like SpaceX or another — would generate thousands of direct and indirect jobs, as well as attract high-paying positions.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Orlando Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
