
Below are Leon Wieseltier’s opening remarks at the Ukraine: Thinking Together conference in Kiev, given on May 17.  We will be publishing other contributions from the conference in the coming days.

This gathering in Kiev is the result of a casual remark. Last March, as I watched the progress of Putin’s imperialism beyond his borders and fascism within his borders, I ruefully remarked to Frank Foer that the moment reminded me of what I used to call my Congress for Cultural Freedom-envy—my somewhat facile but nonetheless sincere regret at having been born too late to participate in the struggle of Western intellectuals, some of whom became my teachers and my heroes, against the Stalinist assault on democracy in Europe. And all of a sudden, pondering the Russian aggression in Crimea, and the Russian campaign of destabilization in Ukraine, I realized that I had exaggerated my belatedness. I was not born too late at all. Our time is not lacking for fundamental historical challenges and the obligation to choose sides. Passivity—even sympathetic passivity—in the face of a war on freedom is as inadequate now as it was then. So I exclaimed to my friend, “But this is 1950!” As our predecessors went to Berlin, so we would go to Kiev. We contacted our comrade Timothy Snyder, whose eloquence about Ukraine has been fully the equal of his scholarship, and I proposed this event. Tim kindled instantly to the idea, and, with his extraordinary colleagues in Vienna and Kiev, we made a plan. And here we are.

There is, first and foremost, the principle of liberty. Liberty is not a gift of great powers that can be granted or taken away, or a charity manufactured by foreign diplomats in Swiss hotels. It is a right—the right of individuals and nations to determine their own destinies and their own way of life. These rights are either axiomatic or they are meaningless. Political liberty is premised on a conception of human dignity and human agency that dictators dread and set out to destroy. And there are many ways to destroy it: in recent weeks one reads more and more in the Western press about the “Finlandization” of Ukraine as a possible solution to the crisis, as if “Finlandization” is a compromise among reasonable people and not a soft form of imperial domination. One reads also about the “federalization” of Ukraine as another possible solution. The important point, the point that has been heroically proclaimed in the Maidan, is that whether Ukraine should be federalized, or in any other way reformed in its political arrangements, is for nobody but Ukrainians themselves to decide. It is because you are free, already free, free in your sense of yourselves and in your sense of your country, free as a matter of prior right and (in Jefferson’s precious term) of inalienable right, that Putin is attacking you. He fears your freedom.

And as we affirm the moral dimension of politics, we must affirm also the moral dimension of geopolitics—the insufficiency of “realism” and economicism for the analysis of history and for the design of historical action. Democratic countries have a responsibility toward other democratic countries, and toward democratizing countries. This mutuality may be expressed in ordinary times in alliance systems and in extraordinary times in emergency assistance—I mean consequential emergency assistance. Our values, moreover, are also strategic assets, since in the long run the sentiments of populations matter more than the sentiments of regimes, and peoples do not soon forget the support they receive in their quest for freedom. Conscience must have a place in foreign policy. I wish I could report to you that the democratic countries of the West feel this mutuality, this responsibility, intensely right now; my own country certainly does not. But the historical delinquency that goes by the name of “retrenchment” in America and “globalization” in Europe means only that we have more work to do, more minds to persuade, more hearts to move.

Sign up now to get your dose of politics, culture, and big ideas with our free daily newsletter.

Signed up!

Sign up now to get your dose of politics, culture, and big ideas with our free daily newsletter.
