
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Our political parties and their resulting governance have managed to achieve yet another low. Not only are their actions continuing to damage our country, but they also are contributing to the eruption of violence and territorial aggression in countries around the world by those who realize that the U.S. is divided and weakened by its own government. This lack of unity is an open invitation for their exploitation and aggression. When you look at all the major obstacles that the U.S. has overcome to become the strongest nation in the world, it’s sickening to see our self-destruction by the people who were supposed to preserve our legacy.

Attempting to enforce any restrictions for political contributions on individuals and/or corporations or special interest groups appears to be an overwhelming task. Let them give as much as they want to whomever they wish. However, put restrictions on those who are running for office. He or she could only receive from whatever source a stipulated amount predetermined by an election commission of sorts.

To give an arbitrary example, let’s say running for governor in Kentucky would be worth $1 million. Other offices in other locations would be prorated based on their impotance and the costs of media, etc.

All those running from a major political party would get $1 million. Others could qualify by getting “x” amount of signatures on a petition.

What would we do with all the extra money that was collected from all those big givers? Why not place it into some good government fund? Or have it be used for those who don’t collect enough signatures on their petitions? I’m sure that since the only reason they are giving all these big bucks is to ensure honest, transparent government, they would have no objection to having their money spent for such a good cause.

I recently had the honor of attending graduations at Western Kentucky University in Bowling Green, just a short distance from Louisville. My first step was to purchase gas at a local Louisville station for the price of $3.86 per gallon. In Bowling Green, guess what? Gas is $3.33 per gallon. I assume the federal and state tax are the same both places. Perhaps one of the politicians now seeking votes from the citizens of Kentucky can explain this difference.

RICHARD W. DEATS, Sr.
