
A masked man held a meat cleaver to a teenager’s throat and threatened to cut off her head during a terrifying shop raid.

The 17-year-old was working with two other girls at Martins on Kirkway, Middleton, when a gang stormed in carrying large knives.

One thug put his blade to the victim’s neck and said if she did not open the till he would cut her head off.

His two accomplices ripped out the till and carried it away - but they dropped it in the street and were forced to run off empty handed.

A 68-year-old customer chased after the gang but could not catch them.

No-one was injured, police said.

The attack took place at around 1.30pm on Sunday, May 11.

Detectives are now appealing to anyone with information to come forward.

The first offender 18-20 years old, about 5ft 8in tall, with an average build.

He was wearing a dark coloured zip-up tracksuit top with matching tracksuit bottoms, believed to be Nike branded.

He also had either a balaclava or scarf covering his face.

The second offender was white, 5ft 10in tall, skinnier and also wearing a dark coloured tracksuit and either a balaclava or scarf to mask his face.

The final offender was white, 5ft 8in tall and had a more muscular build. He was wearing a similar outfit to the other two.

Det Con Dan Daly said: “As you can imagine, these girls are extremely traumatised by what happened. For someone to hold a meat cleaver to a teenage girl’s neck and threaten to attack her underlines just how cowardly and violent this gang is and we need to catch them.

“Thankfully no-one was physically injured, and because of the bravery shown by a member of the public who gave chase, this gang’s violent actions were largely in vain as they dropped the money.

“However, the fact they were empty-handed should in no way diminish the seriousness of their actions and the harm and intimidation they subjected three innocent young women to."

Anyone with information should call police on 101 or the independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
