
Photo courtesy Martin Haine, U.K.

I was invited by the local Russian ex-Pat community from the Eastbourne area to observe their private, quiet, yet moving Service of Remembrance in the village of Stone Cross, East Sussex.

As is seen in the photo, the small wooden Cross with the St. George Ribbon proudly attached, was placed into the ground alongside the Royal British Legion Crosses of its British fallen comrades and compatriots, and as far as I am aware it is still proudly standing there for all to see, both as a reminder, and as a remembrance, to the memory of the sacrifices the Russian people made.

Martin Haine, U.K.

Congratulations on your stance against sodomy in Eurovision. It is also great that certain people according to RT and VOR want an alternative. It should include Eurasian nations and world artists from the West marginalized because they refuse to participate in the sodomy.

I was invited by the local Russian ex-Pat community from the Eastbourne area to observe their private, quiet, yet moving Service of Remembrance in the village of Stone Cross, East Sussex.

Prior to this Service, it had been made clear to me that, whilst both the RBL and the local Church Authorities had given their permission to hold this Service, given the current situation and the media coverage regarding the Ukraine, those present had no wish to run the risk of inflaming the passions of any other eastern European community amongst who, they and their families, obviously have to live (a sad comment on these troubled times), so those taking part in this Remembrance declined to have their photos taken, and it was only with reluctance that one individual eventually consented.

As is seen in the photo, the small wooden Cross with the St. George Ribbon proudly attached, was placed into the ground alongside the Royal British Legion Crosses of its British fallen comrades and compatriots, and as far as I am aware it is still proudly standing there for all to see, both as a reminder, and as a remembrance, to the memory of the sacrifices the Russian people made.

Martin Haine, U.K.

Just a short letter to thank you and you team for the reception of my ribbon. I am to wear it permanently and teach fellow citizens of it significance for world peace.

I just read an article by Ilya Kharlamov on multiculturalism in Europe. I never forget years ago when CBC reporter Mark Kelly was in Europe reporting on the fact that people and opposition parties were complaining about the lack of integration of immigrants from Muslims and non Christian countries and he was accusing Europeans of being prejudiced. Well now last week an organization against our immigration policies sent a picture of immigrants in the 60's where they were all Caucasian to now where there was a picture of new immigrants all wearing Punjabi turbans. The problem here is the same as it was in Europe where the governments don't have any kind of poll or public participation to decide what the ethnicity of one's country is going to be.

Whenever a country lets in a large population of people that have a different culture and religion you will have problems because our government does not stipulate that they should be willing to adopt our culture and fully integrate. In Ontario years ago the Muslims wanted to set up a Sharia for their Muslims and I sent in my two cents and objected saying that a country should have one law for all its people.

We appreciate feedback from our readers and listeners. Let us know what you think about our site, articles and broadcasts. Whether you have ideas for topics to address or suggestions for improvement, we want to hear from you.

Please note that your letters will not be published if they contain illegal or abusive materials, threatening, obscene or racist language, or advertise commercial products or services, or promote other websites. Overuse of uppercase and emoticons decreases the likelihood that your letter will be published. Also, letters may be edited and shortened for space.

Don’t forget to include your full name and place of residence. Your email will not be disclosed.

All rights reserved.
