
The Ukrainian crisis illustrates how competition for scarce fossil fuel resources continues to be a major driver of the destabilizing geopolitical agenda of the major powers.

Geopolitics and energy policy analysts are increasingly emphasizing the inevitability of new tensions and conflicts in the intensifying competition for non-renewable fossil fuel resources between the established global economic powers and newly emerging powers.

The fact underscores the need for a shift in energy policy from fossil fuels to renewable energy.

In an article published in the CNN last month, Russ Carnahan, a former US representative from Missouri, acknowledged that grandstanding political rhetoric has tended to obscure the fact that the ongoing crisis in Ukraine is the result of the West's push for energy independence and security and that until major economic powers decide to do something to reduce the reliance on fossil fuels, the jostle for access to dwindling global resources will continue to dominate the geopolitical agenda at the cost of global and regional stability.

Mother Jones notes the regrettable fact that rather than a dedicated push for transition to sustainable energy, what we have seen in recent years is a concerted push to consolidate the world's reliance on fossil fuel. The dream of a future green energy global economy is fast receding as the major economies step up investment in new fossil fuel exploration technology, such as hydraulic fracturing ("fracking"), to enhance their ability to exploit "unconventional" oil and gas reserves, specifically shale oil and gas reserves.

What is missing in several analyses of the Ukrainian crisis is the fact that it is partly the fallout of an intensifying global search for new off and onshore fossil fuel reserves.

The renewed jostling to secure new major offshore oil and gas reserves comes under the guidelines of the 1982 Law of the Sea Treaty which allows nations to claim an exclusive economic zone reaching up to 200 nautical miles off coast.

From the South China Seas to the Gulf of Mexico, the Caspian and the Black Sea region, the ongoing rush for new offshore reserves is creating opportunities for new tensions that could erupt into major conflicts.

The Black Sea region in particular has received a lot of attention lately.

According to the New York Times , major oil companies have completed preliminary geological surveys which suggest the region could very soon replace the North Sea as a major oil and gas exploration zone.

Russia's March annexation of Crimea, which secured it a new maritime zone in the northeastern Black Sea about three times the size of the Crimean landmass, with potential deep sea oil and gas reserves that analysts say could be worth trillions of dollars, is not a coincidence coming at a time of new focus on the Black Sea as the "new North Sea."

Russia's acquisition of Crimea added to its previous 26,000 square miles about 36,000 square miles of new maritime zone widely regarded as potentially the best reserves in the Black Sea region.

The potential economic losses for Ukraine are tremendous.

The latest revelation about the potential economic implications of Russia's annexation of Crimea runs counter to previous analyses which, overlooking the fact of the new maritime zone with potentially vast resources that Russia acquired, claimed that Russia's acquisition of Crimea was economically unwise decision.

It would be mistaken to imagine Putin overlooked the significance of the new maritime acquisition when he took the decision to annex Crimea.

Although Russia portrayed its takeover of Crimea wholly in political terms, analyst have noted that Putin's response to the move by Western powers to take over Ukraine through ultranationalist Ukrainian proxies is part of an ongoing struggle for control of Eurasian energy corridors and the new rush for new oil and gas reserves in the Black Sea region.

The lesson is that when you peel off the thin skin of this geopolitical crisis, you find crude oil flowing beneath the surface.

While Western analysts tend to be unanimous that Putin's annexation of Crimea was intended to secure choice offshore oil and gas reserves in the Black Sea, they overlook similar motives in the US.

As Nafeez Ahmed, executive director of Institute for Policy Research and Development pointed out in an article published by The Guardian , US interference in the region was motivated by the geostrategic goal of gaining control of crucial energy pipeline routes from the Caspian basin.

He notes the fact that moves by the US to snatch Ukraine from Russia began in 2004 during the Bush administration, which granted $65 million to provide "democracy training" to opposition groups in Western Ukraine.

The program exploded in scale during the administration of President Barack Obama, with the US spending over $5 billion to provide "democracy training" to Ukrainian opposition groups, as US Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland explained to an audience during a speech at the National Press club in Washington DC in December.

Ukraine is increasingly perceived to be critically situated in the emerging battle to dominate energy transport corridors linking the oil and natural gas reserves of the Caspian basin to European markets... Whether Ukraine will provide alternative routes helping to diversify access, as the West would prefer, or 'find itself forced to play the role of a Russian subsidiary,' remains to be seen.

So pivotal to US geostrategic interest is Ukraine that the US government could overlook the political awkwardness of moving the son of Vice President Joe Biden to a position where he can closely monitor and protect US energy interests in the region.

The appointment of Hunter Biden and other Americans with links to the Obama administration to the board of the biggest Ukraine private oil and gas company, Burisma Holdings , reveals the fact that US energy interests are paramount consideration in the policy of Kiev in eastern Ukraine.

With the vision of a green energy global economy now even more remote than ever thanks to "fracking" technology, we can expect to see increasing tensions as new energy-hungry nations emerge in the 21st-century.

Allvoices is an exclusive community where great writers can connect, share their original content, gain exposure and earn money.

Our team of professional editors curates all content to make sure our readers have fresh, interesting reads everyday.

BrandSpace is a venue for our best sponsored content to be featured on Allvoices.com . PulsePoint is a leader in the content marketing space, and our stable of great content creators helps our partners reach and connect to their desired audience. BrandSpace is where that content lives.

We want to give our buyer and seller clients priority access to smarter impressions across the web so they have better targeting, better insights, and better ROI. We do this through impression-level transparency on proprietary audience, content and engagement data segments.

Our writers come from all walks of life, from full-time freelancers looking to build a larger following to desk jockeys who want to keep the creative juices flowing. Allvoices’ writers are passionate and insightful, and they have unique perspectives about a variety of subjects.
