
Economic disparities aren't new. But from Piketty to the pope, talking about them is.

Notable world figures like Pope Francis and Barack Obama declared inequality the defining issue of our time. And how to fight it became an unavoidable topic in electoral debates everywhere, even in countries like Brazil where, over the past decade, income inequality has steadily declined.

Piketty is a social, intellectual, and media phenomenon as well as an editorial success.

The United States has an unrivaled ability to export and globalize its anxieties.

The unexpected popularity of lofty academic books isn’t new—as examples such as The End of History by Francis Fukuyama and The Clash of Civilizations by Samuel Huntington attest. Published in 1992 and 1996, respectively, they were released at opportune moments when there was already strong interest around the world in the topics they were exploring. Both works emerged after the collapse of the Soviet Union, as the end of communism surfaced fundamental questions about the future of politics and economics. Fukuyama predicted that the coming age would be defined by the triumph of liberal ideas—by democracy and markets. Several years later, Huntington argued that clashes over religion rather than ideology would become the most frequent source of conflicts in the twenty-first century. Now it’s Piketty’s turn. A decade ago, during the economic boom and before the financial crisis, the desire to understand why “r > g” equals more inequality would not have been so intense or widespread.

Inequality became the lightning rod that it is today only when wealth and incomes became as concentrated in the United States as they have been in other highly unequal countries. This superpower has an unrivaled ability to export and globalize its anxieties. In this case, it’s good news that the problem afflicting Americans is also important for people elsewhere who have passively tolerated inequality for too long. One hopes that the debate underway in the U.S. and Europe will result in actions that will effectively improve the ways in which income and wealth are distributed—and not only in wealthy nations.

Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has said that The End of Power "will change the way you read the news, the way you think about politics, and the way you look at the world." George Soros added that this "extraordinary new book will be of great interest to all those in leadership positions [who] will gain a new understanding of why power has become easier to acquire and harder to exercise."

Naím’s public service includes his tenure as Venezuela’s Minister of Trade and Industry in the early 1990s, director of Venezuela's Central Bank, and executive director of the World Bank.  He was also a professor of business and economics and dean of IESA, Venezuela's main business school. He is the Chairman of the Board of the Group of Fifty (G-50) and a member of the board of directors of the National Endowment for Democracy, the International Crisis Group, and Population Action International.

Naím also writes regularly for The Financial Times. His columns are syndicated internationally and appear in all of Latin America's leading newspapers. In a 2013, the U.K.'s Prospect, magazine conducted a survey that named him one of the leading thinkers in the world. He has an M.Sc. and Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register.
