
The US leadership is desperately trying to whitewash over their embarrassing neo-Nazi allies in Ukraine. The successors to Stepan Bandera seem not to be the best of company for Washington and Brussels. However, instead of distancing itself from "adepts" of the ideology of hate, the West is making efforts to justify Ukraine’s Nazi collaborator crimes.

Anne Elizabeth Applebaum, an American journalist and Pulitzer Prize-winner, attempts to justify the controversially nationalist political ideology in her article "Nationalism Is Exactly What Ukraine Needs." She wrote that a "Ukrainian nationalist" should not be considered a "Nazi" or "anti-Semite  dressed in black uniform and boots". Anne carefully avoids the term "neo-Nazi" and uses the word "nationalist" instead, creating a new, sanitized image for the Ukrainian freedom fighter. Anne Applebaum’s logic may well bring to mind Jesuitical casuistry: the journalist equates the concept of nationalism with that of patriotism, drawing readers to the conclusion that there’s a reasonable connection between the ideals of democracy and nationalism.

"For what <…> the majority of Ukrainians really lacked, then and later, was nationalism. Or patriotism, public spirit, national loyalty, national allegiance, whatever word you prefer: the sense that there was something special and unique about Ukraine, the feeling that Ukraine was worth fighting for," she writes.

As the proverb says, "the devil is in the details". Nationalism and patriotism can’t be considered synonymous having at least one fundamental distinction. Nationalism is exalting one nation above all others and placing primary emphasis on the promotion of its culture and interests as over and above other nations or supranational groups. It is close to chauvinism, a belligerent belief in national superiority, which leads to hate crime and the suppression of ethnic minorities. A hate speech by Yulia Tymoshenko called followers to kill eight million Ukrainian Russians "with nuclear weapons" is a vivid example of nationalism twisted into brutal chauvinism. On the other hand, patriotism is a more moral concept of devotion to one’s own country. It implies willingness to self-sacrifice for your homeland, a concept that contains neither any reference to superiority over others, nor positions the nation against another. The distinction between the terms is very important, especially when discussing the nature of Ukrainian nationalism.

"The tiny group of nationalists in Ukraine, whom perhaps we can now agree to call patriots, represent the country’s only hope of escaping apathy, rapacious corruption and, eventually, dismemberment. And this should be no surprise: In the nineteenth century, no sensible freedom fighter would have imagined it possible to create a modern state, let alone a democracy, without some kind of nationalist movement behind it."

Furthermore, Anne Applebaum suggests that the US’s "expceptionalism" or "belief in American greatness" is also a form of "nationalism”: "In the United States, we dislike the word "nationalism" and so, hypocritically, we call it other things: "American exceptionalism," for example, or a "belief in American greatness". According to Applebaum, nationalism is what inspires you, "to improve your country, to help it live up to the image you want it to have”.

Applebaum’s conclusion that a democracy is actually being empowered by "nationalism" is the result of an Orwellian-style “substitution of notions". Democracy, with its values of tolerance, multiculturalism, protection of human rights and rights of minorities, can be aligned with neither nationalism, nor chauvinism.

Anne Applebaum finishes her article with the neo-Nazi slogan, inherited by Ukrainian radicals from the notorious OUN (Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists) and its military wing the UPA (Ukrainian Insurgent Army), as well as Waffen SS Galician Division: “Glory to Ukraine, Glory to its Heroes".

"Ukrainians need more of this kind of inspiration, not less," stresses Anne Applebaum, "They need more occasions when they can shout, "Slava Ukraini-Heroyam Slava" - "Glory to Ukraine, Glory to its Heroes," which was, yes, the same slogan used by the controversial Ukrainian Revolutionary Army in the 1940s, but has been adapted to a new context."

According to historian Dr.Per Anders Rudling, the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists was, from its very beginning a “fascist” formation, based on the "values" of racial purity, the preservation of race; "the fascist attributes of anti-liberalism, anti-conservatism, and anti-communism. An armed party based on totalitarianism, anti-Semitism, Führerprinzip, and the adoption of fascist greetings,” as well as a commitment to Hitler’s idea of establishing a new fascist order in Europe". Franziska Bruder, author of the most detailed study of the organization [OUN], describes the OUN as, "a classic representative of a nationalist movement with fascist characteristics that appeared in East-Central Europe", an analysis shared by other non-nationalist scholars of the OUN," notes Dr.Rudling. The slogan "Ukraine for Ukrainians" had become the movement’s central goal, to be achieved through ruthless ethnic cleansing and murder on a massive scale during WWII.

The recent tragic events in Odessa on May, 2, reminded us of hideous atrocities committed by the OUN and Waffen SS Galician in Ukraine during the 1940s.

"On May 2 in the port city of Odessa <…> pro-regime militants chased dissidents into the Trade Unions Building and then set it on fire. As some 40 or more ethnic Russians were burned alive or died of smoke inhalation, the crowd outside taunted them as red-and-black Colorado potato beetles, with the chant of "Burn, Colorado, burn." Afterwards, reporters spotted graffiti on the building walls containing Swastika-like symbols and honoring the "Galician SS," the Ukrainian adjunct to Hitler’s SS in World War II,” writes Robert Parry, describing the event in an article "Burning Ukraine’s Protesters Alive".

The same tactic was then used in the city of Mariupol, where neo-Nazi paramilitaries, organized in so-called “National Guard” units, burned alive and killed about 20 unarmed protesters, including police officers, in a police building.

As Robert Parry notes, the National Guard was derived from the Maidan’s "self-defense" forces, consisting predominantly of members of the neo-Nazi Right Sector, militant members of the ultra-nationalist and anti-Semitic Svoboda party and other radicals.

Now, strangely enough, Anne Applebaum calls for more "inspiration of that kind", not less. However, the brutal Nazism, demonstrated by Ukrainian radicals in Eastern Ukraine can’t be covered-up or whitewashed, despite the efforts of the US leadership or its highly malleable mass-media.

All rights reserved.
