
I’m not ashamed to admit I still agree with Nick. But Nick Clegg may have destroyed his party.

His performance in the televised General Election debates back in 2010 won over so many people that the pundits started talking about Cleggmania.

But some Liberal Democrat voters felt betrayed once the election was over – and the Liberal Democrats went into coalition with the Conservatives.

Personally, I don’t think Mr Clegg could have done anything else. After all, he said repeatedly during the election that, if there was a hung Parliament, he would talk to the party that won the most votes and the most seats – and that turned out to be the Conservatives.

But that’s just my view. Many people disagree.

There have always been left-wing Lib Dem voters – in fact, some people voted Liberal Democrat because they thought the party was more left-wing than Labour.

They were bound to be angry at the decision to do a deal with the Tories.

And one of the first moves of the new Government was to increase student frees – something Nick had specifically said he’d never do.

Did Conservatives thank the Lib Dems for their support? Nope.

Right-wing Conservatives claimed the “yellow peril”, as they called Lib Dems, were preventing them from carrying out good old-fashioned Tory policies like leaving the European Union.

More recently, details of rows between Nick Clegg and Conservative Education Secretary Michael Gove have been leaked to the media.

It seems nobody likes Nick any more. And the question is whether this will be reflected at the ballot box.

A recent opinion poll put the Lib Dems in fourth place, behind not only the Conservatives and Labour but also UKIP.

It found 11 percent of voters said they would back UKIP at the next general election, compared to nine per cent backing the Lib Dems. If things get worse then the Lib Dems could even be pushed into fifth place by the Greens, which are currently backed by eight per cent of voters.

Another concern is that Labour politicians are saying they will refuse to work with the Lib Dems if there is another hung Parliament and Labour is the largest party.

Public opinion could change before polling day next May.

But right now, things don’t look good for Nick.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Fort Dunlop,

Fort Parkway,

Fort Dunlop,

Fort Parkway,

We reach over 784,967* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of Birmingham and the West Midlands.

Over 66% of our visitors, who view over 4m* page impressions every month, are in the desirable ABC1 socio-economic groups.

The Birmingham Mail is part of Trinity Mirror Midlands , offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

A born and bred Brummie, David was appointed editor of the Birmingham Mail in November 2009.

He has over 30 years experience as a journalist in the West Midlands including editorships on the Coventry Telegraph and Sunday Mercury.
