
LAOAG CITY, Ilocos Norte—Leading the way toward the establishment of more dragon fruit plantations and processing centers in the country, the Philippine Dragon Fruit Growers and Processors National Council was organized recently to make its presence felt in the export market.

Led by its president, multi-awarded farmer scientist and woman entrepreneur Edita Aguinaldo-Dacuycuy of Refmad Farms, the pioneering dragon-fruit plantation in the Ilocos region, the newly organized council, backed by various government agencies, such as the Department of Agriculture, Department of Agrarian Reform and the Ilocos Region Agriculture Resources Research and Development Council (ILARRDEC) aims to promote dragon fruit as a promising high- value crop with a great demand in the export market.

At present, there are at least 40 active members in the council composed of bigtime players in the agriculture industry from Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao.

“By coming as one, we envision to make the Philippines known for its quality fruit products, such as dragon fruit,”Dacuycuy said after her meeting on Monday with Agriculture Sec. Proceso Alcala in Manila.

Dacuycuy, 69, popularly known as the “Dragon Lady” of Ilocos Norte, said they are now in the process of registering the council with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The oath-taking ceremony of the new officers and members is expected in June.

investors from Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao.

With a high demand for this exotic fruit known for its therapeutic properties, dragon- fruit growers and investors can earn if they penetrate the international market.

In Ilocos Norte, local growers have developed at least six varieties of dragon fruit.

Leonardo Pascua, project leader of the dragon-fruit research and development extension of Mariano Marcos State University, who is also one of the consultants of the national council, said dragon-fruit growers need to have at least 1,000 hectares of dragon-fruit plantations to supply the global market.
