
Is this a good time to add to emerging-market positions? It was just a few months ago that emerging markets were hammered on the ultimately unfounded concern the U.S. Federal Reserve would raise rates sooner than expected, forcing other central banks to follow suit and hurting developing economies in particular. During January alone, the MSCI Emerging Markets index tumbled 6.6%, while the S&P 500 fell just 3.6%.

Veritable has been allocating ever-greater sums to emerging-market money managers since mid-2012 – and continues to ramp-up exposure today. Clients currently have about 15% to 18% of their international stock assets in emerging-market equities, says CIO David Belej, and he expects that to climb another five to 10 more percentage points over the next few years. Short-term sell-offs are generally a great way to buy long-term exposure, he says.

But, Belej quickly cautions, not all battered emerging markets. Consider the precipitous fall in Russia’s Micex. From peak to trough this year, the index fell 13%, after the West enforced economic sanctions related to escalating tension with Ukraine. Belej is still not tempted to buy Russian stocks because the country remains unattractive to investors over the long term. “We have concerns [in Russia], about corporate governance and minority rights, that easily trumped somewhat attractive valuations,” Belej says. His final conclusion: Piling into the Russian market during Putin’s land grab in Crimea is inefficient over the long term. So no go.

Over the years, Veritable has played the emerging markets with a short list of money managers that tend to outperform traditional benchmarks. “In these inefficient markets we like stock-pickers not benchmark huggers,” he says. He looks for managers with U.S. or London-based schooling in value investing; who have flourished under the watchful eye of other prominent managers before going off on their own; and who live in the country they are covering. Veritable has a proven track record of early investing in emerging-market money managers who turn into stars. That includes a 1996 investment in Richard Chenevix-Trench of Sloane Robinson ; another mid-1990s allocation to Howard Marks of Oaktree Capital Management . Similarly, an early investment in the money manager Egerton Capital , when it was founded by John Armitage in 1994, proved prescient.

Belej currently is bullish on pan-Asia, since emerging consumers, a growing population and strong economic growth will act as continuous ballasts to whatever macro-economic curve balls the central planners throw at the markets. In particular, he likes India, where the election of pro-business Prime Minister Narendra Modi signals a willingness to change the country’s often corrupt business environment (see our recent Barron’s cover story ).

Furthermore, India’s stock market is not as crowded and efficient as developed market indices like the S&P 500. To Belej, this suggests that active managers should be able to outperform local indices over time. Want some ideas? Colleague Reshma Kapadia recommended nine ways to play India in “ Where to Invest in India ,” published earlier this month. The Morningstar-topping fund Matthews India (ticker: MINDX ) likes shipping and logistics firm Gujarat Pipavav Port (GPPV.India), as a play on the imminent update of the country’s crumbling infrastructure. Another pick, Shriram Transport Finance (SRTR.India), is India’s biggest commercial vehicle lender, which should benefit from economic growth.

We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines . Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.

Be the first to leave a comment on this blog.

Written with Barron’s wit and often contrarian perspective, Penta provides the affluent with advice on how to navigate the world of wealth management, how to make savvy acquisitions ranging from vintage watches to second homes, and how to smartly manage family dynamics.

Richard C. Morais, Penta’s editor, was Forbes magazine’s longest serving foreign correspondent, has won multiple Business Journalist Of The Year Awards, and is the author of two novels: The Hundred-Foot Journey and Buddhaland, Brooklyn. Robert Milburn is Penta’s reporter, both online and for the quarterly magazine. He reviews everything from family office regulations to obscure jazz recordings.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
