
Your Fairfax Membership account setup is complete. We are redirecting    you now. Please use this email "      " to log in to the Financial Review in the future.

Virtue sometimes doesn’t have its own rewards. The political practice of outlining spending and tax problems for some years into the future started in the late 1980s, making a virtue of transparency and fiscal responsibility.

Promises based on (very large sounding) four-year costs to the budget rather than single years became the order of the day. Eventually, promises were extended even further into the future. And as they did, the whole ­process started to come back to bite both sides of politics.

In 2007, John Howard promised two massive tranches of tax cuts, the first in the May budget, the second at the beginning of the election campaign. It locked the Coalition into new rounds of tax cuts every July from 2007 to 2010.

Labor felt compelled to match these promises.

There were those who, at the time, believed the Howard tactics were not just about spending anything to get his dying government back over the line, but about setting a trap for the incoming government.

The cost of the election tax cuts was forecast at $10.9 billion in 2009-10 and $15.9 billion in 2010-11. (If you tried to cost them out to the present day, they would be even more expensive).

Some in the Labor ranks rue the day they mindlessly followed Howard down the tax-cut burrow.

Finding the money for these cuts as the revenue base collapsed during the global financial crisis shows the risks in such promises.

Labor in turn planted its own time bomb in the form of agreements with the states to spend a lot more on ­education and hospitals.

The cost of these deals was only due to hit the budget in 2017 – one year beyond the four years of the last Swan budget. The Abbott government has chosen to set them off now.

Laura Tingle, The Australian Financial Review's    political editor, has worked in the parliamentary press gallery in    Canberra for more than 25 years. Laura has won two Walkley awards and    the Paul Lyneham Award for Excellence in Press Gallery Journalism and    has also been highly commended by the Walkley judges for    investigative reporting.

Laura Tingle, The Australian Financial Review's    political editor, has worked in the parliamentary press gallery in    Canberra for more than 25 years. Laura has won two Walkley awards and    the Paul Lyneham Award for Excellence in Press Gallery Journalism and    has also been highly commended by the Walkley judges for    investigative reporting.
