
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

A. As that well-known comic would say, that's why I'm the Answer Man and they're not. Turns out the name has remained popular even as the 650-year-old battle on which it is based has been forgotten by most.

In 1388,

had forbidden this hunt, so when Percy and friends ignored the ban,

and attacked. The ensuing bloody conflict became known as the Battle of Otterburn.

." The second -- and better-known -- was published about the same time the Pilgrims were landing in the New World, 1620.

"The old song of '

that I found not my heart more moved than with a trumpet ... '"

The name apparently has remained a favorite even as the reason behind it has been forgotten. In Emily Bronte's "

, "Chevy."

A. You may live in a far-out time zone, but if you're a resident of one of the 50 states, you vote the same day as everyone else.

7 a.m. to 6 p.m.

. So in any tight race, you'd have to wait a while to see who won their seven electoral votes.

Q. When can we safely dispose of old insurance policies? We have been keeping the declaration sheets for at least 10 years and the actual policies for three years past the renewal or expiration dates. Our folders are getting really full!

No, says my agent,

of Farmer's. In his own 30 seconds of smart, Professor Friederich says you're basically wasting space and time.

"You don't need that," he said. "The policy is renewed every year, and all insurance companies now have them on file from the day you start until the day you end. We can go back and get those 'dec' sheets if we ever need them."

The old policies are out of date, anyway. If, for example, you buy replacement-cost coverage, that coverage is going to go up ever year, so the amount listed on your 2012-2013 dec sheet wouldn't even be relevant anymore.

"I've had people come in here with every invoice that they've ever had and there's no need for that," he said.

The only exception might be if you filed a claim while the old policy was in force and it still has yet to be settled. Yet even then, the company would have the policy on record. New claims would be filed under the current coverage.

"I can't think of any reason to have them. I can't think of anything it would benefit you."

in 1898.
