
SPRINGFIELD -- A Pittsfield man is one of two new priests who will be ordained for the Diocese of Springfield on Saturday, June 7, at an 11 a.m. Mass at St. Michael's Cathedral.

Springfield Bishop Timothy McDonnell will ordain Christopher Andrew Fedoryshyn, 29, of Pittsfield, and Francis (Frank) Jeffrey Lawlor, 57, a native of New Haven, Conn. The public is invited to attend the morning ceremony.

Fedoryshyn is a 2003 graduate of Taconic High School and a 2007 graduate of Siena College. He is the son of Marie and the late Peter Fedoryshyn. After college he began doctoral studies in economics at American University in Washington, D.C.

Following his father's sudden death in 2008, Fedoryshyn returned to Pittsfield. He credits his pastor, the Rev. Peter Gregory of St. Charles Parish, with encouraging his vocation. He entered the Oblates of the Virgin Mary but later determined he wanted to be a diocesan priest. He then entered St. John's Seminary in Brighton.

Just prior to entering the seminary, Deacon Lawlor was the development director for the Newman Catholic Center at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. He was a seminarian at Blessed John XXIII National Seminary in Weston.

Father Gary M. Dailey, director of vocations for the Diocese of Springfield, said the ordination day is special.

"Always, when we ordain new priests, it's a sign of great hope. It's also a sign of continuity. Christ continues to work in the church. Through the priest, the sacraments are being administered to the people God and that alone is, in itself, a great joy," said Father Dailey.

Gary said one ordination is scheduled for next year and none for 2016. Following the ordination, there are six men studying to be priests. However, Gary said there are 12 men in the application process for this fall.

"Also, we have ordained 24 men in the past nine years," he noted. "Still, we need to continue prayers for an increase in vocations."

The June 7 ordination Mass will be live-streamed and can be viewed on that day by clicking on the ordination link at iobserve.org .

Welcome to your discussion forum: Click the login link below to sign in with or to set up a Disqus account or to access your social networking account. When you do, your comment should be posted immediately, provided it meets the guidelines. ( What are the guidelines? .) Report abuse by flagging a comment (mouse over the comment). Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion of The Berkshire Eagle. So keep it civil.
