
CHAMBERSBURG &GT;&GT; The local Democratic party is short of candidates for the primary election, and a party leader is encouraging Democrats to leave the blanks unfilled rather than write-in Republican candidates.

Polls are open today from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. as Republicans and Democrats nominate their respective candidates for state and federal offices.

The GOP has several contests to decide, while the Democrats primarily are choosing nominees for governor and lieutenant governor.

Democrats fielded a candidate, Alanna Hartzok of Chambersburg, to run for Pennsylvania's 9th Congressional District seat, but have no showing in the state races to represent the 78th, 89th and 90th Legislative Districts and 30th Senatorial District.

The blanks on ballots invite write-ins and make for a long night on election night. Poll workers must count write-in votes by hand.

Republicans often try to secure their position during the primary by also winning the Democratic nomination with a write-in campaign. A general election by all voters in November traditionally decides who wins the position.

Sheri Morgan, chair of the Franklin County Democratic Committee, wants to stop Democrats from writing in the names of Republicans on their blank ballots.

"Leaving the ballot space empty is better, and certainly more intellectually honest, than writing in a candidate who has no intention of supporting Democratic values and touts his or her anti-Democratic bona fides," Morgan said. "An empty space on the ballot in the Primary leaves an opportunity for a Democratic candidate to run in the General Election without having Democrats to explain to voters who the 'real' Democrat is."

Democrats should instead identify candidates who might run in the future, she said.

"In some races we are not all that outnumbered, but we are certainly outvoted." Morgan said. "When I show potential candidates paths to winning a race, they take notice. One thing I will not tolerate is an attempt by registered Democrats to thwart the efforts of our Democratic candidates by working for Republican candidates who intend to win the Democratic nomination by running write-in campaigns. This gaming the system by infiltrating a political party is nothing more than an attempt to destroy the integrity of our political process. It is shameful."

Republicans outnumber Democrats by nearly 2-to-1 in Franklin County. Of the county's 87,805 registered voters, 49,709 are registered Republicans and 25,319 are registered Democrats. Another 12,777 voters are registered with neither party and are not eligible to vote in the primary.

Since the November election, third-parties gained more than either the Republican or Democratic parties. They gained 279 voters to the GOP's 170. The number of Democrats shrank by 71.

• In the 9th Congressional District where Rep. Bill Shuster, R-Hollidaysburg, is challenged by Art Halvorson, a retired U.S. Coast Guard captain and real estate entrepreneur from Bedford County, and Travis Schooley, an Army veteran and projects manager in Quincy Township, Franklin County.

• Rita Daywalt, a member of the Waynesboro Area School Board, and Paul Schemel, a former Greencastle councilman, seek the party nomination for the 78th District of the Pennsylvania House.

• Newly elected state Rep. Jesse Topper, R-Bedford, faces Josh Lang of Everett in the 90th District.

County ballots also show a choice for GOP governor nomination, but the ballots were printed before the Pennsylvania Supreme Court decided to strike Robert Guzzardi's name from the ballots. Signs stating that are to be posted at the polling places.

Democrats have a choice between Tom Wolf, Robert M. McCord, Katie McGinty and Allyson Y. Schwartz for governor. The candidates for the Democratic lieutenant governor nomination are Mike Stack, Mark Critz, Mark Smith, Brandon P. Neuman and Brad Koplinski.

Sample ballots are available at www.franklincountypa.gov .

Jim Hook can be reached at 717-262-4759.
