
'As a rational, secular, scientific-minded person, I avoid “beliefs,”' says Ehrenreich. 'Show me the evidence!'

I look forward to a scientific explanation, but I don’t think it will ever “explain” the subjective experience any more than any account involving, say, neurotransmitters will ever fully encompass the feeling of love.

Sure. Years of thinking about religions and religious history went into the writing of this book. I am fascinated by the variety of religions and deities – multiple deities, animal deities, good deities and evil or indifferent ones. Monotheism and the belief in a single benevolent god are fairly recent innovations. I have been researching and writing about these issues for a couple of decades now.

Also, once I realized that other people had had apparently similar experiences and often called them “religious” experiences, I started reading the Christian mystics. Saint Teresa of Avila, Meister Eckhart, and others are cited in my book.

For one thing, I rediscovered the journal I had kept as an adolescent. For another, I realized that if I didn’t do this now I would probably run out of time. I guess I felt an almost journalistic responsibility to report these uncanny experiences, especially when I realized that they were not unique to me.

I don’t think so. I was searching and still am, whether more or less urgently I can’t be sure. After all, I have learned a thing or two along the way.

As a rational, secular, scientific-minded person, I avoid “beliefs.” Show me the evidence!

I also have an acute sense of social responsibility, which is connected to my lack of belief in God or at least in a benevolent god. If there was such a being I could walk by a beggar or cross a picket line with a clear conscience, knowing that human suffering is all “part of God’s plan.” But since there is no such god, it is up to me to get involved or at least reach out a hand. All we have for sure is each other.

It would no doubt have been a lot less exciting.

Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.
