
NEW DELHI/JAMMU: A soldier was killed and two others injured in a landmine blast and cross-border firing along the Line of Control in Akhnoor sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, following which six Pakistan-made mines were detected in the area in an operation mounted by the Army.

While reports from Jammu held the "unusual incident" in Khour area of Akhnoor sector could be the handiwork of a "border action team (BAT)", which typically includes a mix of militants and Pakistan army special forces, the Army headquarters in New Delhi firmly ruled out any such possibility.

Cross-border raids by Pakistani BATs last year, which had first beheaded an Indian soldier and mutilated another's body in Mendhar sector in January, and then killed another five jawans in Poonch in August, had made India put the bilateral composite dialogue process on the back-burner.

Another BAT operation now, with PM-elect Narendra Modi all set to take charge, could well shove the dialogue into deep freeze for the foreseeable future. Though infiltration attempts and cross-border exchanges of fire still continue, with 26 ceasefire violations being recorded this year till now, they are nowhere near as intense as last year. As many as 251 ceasefire violations, 199 of them along the LoC, were recorded in 2013.

"Recovery of the Pakistan-made mines and other equipment at the Nathu Tibba site in Akhnoor sector does point to the involvement of Pakistan army and terrorists from across the LoC. But it was not a BAT operation," said a senior Army officer.

A patrol of the Maratha Light Infantry was on "some maintenance work ahead of the border fence", which is around 300 metres behind the LoC in the area, when a soldier, Sepoy Bhikale Uttam Balu, stepped on a landmine around 11 am on Sunday.

"He died instantly. Simultaneously, there was fire from across the LoC. Our troops retaliated but two of them (Havaldar Vinod Kumar and Amul Kumar, both from the Engineers) sustained gunshot wounds and splinter injuries. They were airlifted to the military hospital at the Udhampur-based Northern Command," he said.

The subsequent search operation found six Pakistan-made landmines planted in the area, leading to the suspicion that the aim was to cause casualties among Indian patrols in the area. Incidentally, the Army also thwarted an infiltration by a group of three militants in the Bimber Ghali sector near Rajouri around 8.30 am on Sunday. "An IED planted by the fleeing terrorists was found in the area. We destroyed it later," said another officer.
