
OXFORD might be the county’s most left-wing district, but two parties on the right are hoping to make a breakthrough next week.

The Conservative Party has fielded candidates in all wards for Thursday’s Oxford City Council elections and UKIP is standing in six wards.

Half of the city council’s 48 seats are up for election, with Labour hoping to hold onto its large majority of 30.

Katharine Harborne, the deputy chairman of Oxford East Conservatives and candidate in Quarry and Risinghurst, said the party is optimistic of winning its first election in the city since 2002.

Meanwhile Ian McDonald, chairman of the Oxford branch of UKIP and candidate in Barton and Sandhills, said his party’s message is being well-received on the doorstep.

He said: “We have seats that we expect to do well in and seats that we are unsure about. From going out campaigning a lot of people say they have had enough of Labour. It could be interesting, but I cannot call it.’’ Another candidate in Barton and Sandhills is Benjamin Linus, who along with Artwell in Cowley and Pat Mylvaganam in St Clement’s are the independent candidates for the city council.

But city council and Labour leader Bob Price felt the big issue at the election would be housing and feels his administration’s record on the issue is good.

In March a report commissioned by Oxfordshire’s councils said Oxford needs to build 28,000 homes by 2031, something Mr Price has said is not possible within the city’s existing boundaries.

He said: “For Oxford the problem has always been that there are many people who cannot get houses, and the cost of housing is a constant theme on the doorstep.

“Our record on that is pretty good. We have got the Barton estate and other developments around the city so there are over 1,000 houses being built and other sites at Oxpens and the Northern Gateway in the pipeline.

City councillor Jean Fooks, the leader of the Lib Dems, says her party – which is in government for the first time – is hopeful that, with nine of the party’s 12 seats up for election, it can do well if voters make their choice on local issues rather than national ones. She said: “I have had some interesting conversations with people on the doorstep but this is a local election and local issues is what it has to be about.

“People feel they are not being listened to. There has been a planning fiasco at Roger Dudman Way and that’s not the only one.’’ Oxford’s Green group is hoping to capitalise in the collapse of Lib Dem support and become the city’s official opposition. It is fielding candidates in every ward of the city.

The party’s leader on the city council, Craig Simmons, said: “We are seeing a lot of support and are buoyed by the improvements in national polls, which show the Greens overtaking the Lib Dems.

Chaka Artwell also claims to be a campaigner to save Temple Cowley pool. Many of my friends and I have been using the pool and gym regularly and at different times for several years. None of us have ever seen Artwell there!

If charity work and pleasing the aristocracy qualified one to run for the city Council, then many politicians and city Councillors would be x-Salvation Army officers.

Chaka Artwell also claims to be a campaigner to save Temple Cowley pool. Many of my friends and I have been using the pool and gym regularly and at different times for several years. None of us have ever seen Artwell there!

Delighted that you are a regular user if the Temple Cowley facilities Howard14.  No doubt you would like to see the pool and gym saved and restored to full working order.  I've attended some of the weekly Save TCP meetings and, rest assured, Artwell is always there.

In terms of where Candidates live, the Labour Candidate for Cowley lives in the Rose Hill Ward.  I've no wish to see our Labour Council continue to asset-strip Cowley so I'll base my voting decision on who I believe is most likely to fight tooth and nail to save the pool I've used for over 40 years.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
