
Lima Congressman Carlos Bruce has come out as gay – becoming the first openly gay member of Congress in Peruvian history.

Bruce, a long time campaigner for civil unions for same-sex couples, made the revelation in an interview with the El Comercio newspaper published on Sunday.

‘Yes, I am gay and I am proud to belong to this group of people who are so valuable to Peru,’ Bruce told the newspaper.

Bruce was asked why he had waited until now to come out,

'Because I think it's time,’ Bruce replied, ‘I've always been reluctant to talk about my private life and the things I do in my bed. It seems tacky.

Bruce said that he had spoken to his two sons prior and brothers before going public and they support his decision to do so.

LGBTI rights group Lima Homosexual Movement congratulated Bruce with his decision to come out.

‘With this act of bravery Bruce becomes the first openly gay politician in office in the history of Peru,’ the group said in an online statement.

Slowly, the nation of Perú is shaking off the stagnating dust of the dark ages when people lived in superstition and fear. While this rejection of modern science and psychological studies is working its way past the squalor of for-profit schools and universities controlled, for the most part by religious groups, there is an awakening to the realities of life. While the American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, American Pediatric Association and every major mental health group has come out publicly that homosexuality is neither a choice nor can it be cured, there will be the mentally challenged such as Juan Luis cardinal Cipriani Thorne and the members of Opus Dei who will try to strangle-hold people and force them to return to the past when the Inquisition silenced dissent.

Perú is fortunate to have such brave legislators as Congressita (Congressman) Carlos Bruce who is willing to take the first step for human and civil rights for the LGBTQ people of Perú. He will be opposed by the most ignorant elements of Perú society, but if the people of Perú rally behind him, Bruce can be the start of a real miracle in changing the way Perú sees reality. Unfortunately, most schools and universities that teach psychology are more than an century behind their counterparts in the world and this will be an impediment. If Perú does not change, as a nation Perú will not only fail but remain at the bottom of nations in the field of education and human rights.

Gay Star News Ltd is a company registered in England and Wales (7719609).

Registered office: Unit 2 Cedar Court, 1 Royal Oak Yard, London, SE1 3GA, UK. See full contact details.
