
The Cheeki Rafiki ran into difficulties late last week about 1,000 miles (1,600km) off Cape Cod, Massachusetts.

The sailors’ families have said the men would have escaped in a life raft.

The four crew members are Mr Bridge, 22, from Farnham, Surrey, the yacht's skipper; Paul Goslin, 56, from West Camel, Somerset; Steve Warren, 52, also from Somerset, and 23-year-old James Male, from Southampton, the Royal Yachting Association (RYA) has said.

Plymouth University student Claire Goslin, daughter of Mr Goslin, told the BBC: “They had plenty of time to prepare the raft when they knew they were sinking and my dad would have done everything he could to get them all on the life raft.

On Sunday Claire e-mailed Plymouth councillor Steven Ricketts and Oliver Colvile, MP for Plymouth Sutton & Devonport asking for their help.

She said her father and the three crew members were sailing from Antigua across the Atlantic Ocean to Southampton.

She wrote family members learned that on May 16 at 3.15am the boat was taking on water and at 4.20am a personal beacon was signalled followed by another one at 6.57am.

She wrote: “There is evidence to suggest that they are on the life raft with supplies which will last them a few days. Debris and the remains of a boat, presumed to be Cheeki Rafiki have been found.

“The Boston Coastguards are calling off the search now after 42 hours of extensive searching. The weather conditions are improving and we pray they are still out there alive and well to be found.

A spokeswoman for the US Coastguard said on Monday morning that unless there were “new developments about the case” the search would not be resumed.

In 2005 Ben Fogle and Olympic Oarsman James Cracknell took part in the Atlantic Rowing Race, setting off in a 21ft plywood boat and spending 49 days at sea.

He urged David Cameron to take action, adding: “The families believe that James, Andrew, Paul and Steve are still in their liferaft. Survival time between 5 and 11 days #dontgiveup”.
