
“For years, student groups including the National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP) and student councils of various colleges have continually filed complaints against bogus tuition hike consultations and other violations related to tuition increases. Yet, year in and year out, CHED failed to address these complaints, and instead acted as a mere stamp pad for the approval of tuition increases,” Ridon said.

Out of 1,683 private HEIs in the country, a total of 353 HEIs applied for tuition increases for the incoming academic year, 333 of which are intended for all college levels. Last year, CHED approved 354 out of 451 tuition increase applications.

“The enrollment season is here, and yet CHED has failed to act on complaints filed by students. Clearly, they are committing gross neglect and inefficiency, to the disadvantage of students,” Ridon said.

According to Rise for Education, an alliance of youth groups and student councils for quality and accessible education, a total of 10 complaints on tuition hike violations were filed before CHED in the past months.

Sent out notices to respondents, but no hearings were set/conducted; No resolution on complaints filed.

Other schools with pending violations include University of Sto. Tomas, National Teachers College, and the Lyceum of the Philippines University.

“For weeks, student groups have waited patiently for CHED to act on the said complaints. Rise for Education has even filed a motion for immediate resolution last May 13. But until now, CHED has not yet acted upon the complaints,” said Rise for Education convenor Sarah Elago.

Ridon also noted that even Congress has already compelled CHED to act upon the complaints immediately. In a congressional hearing on tuition regulation last May 7, House Committee on Higher and Technical Education Chair Roman Romulo instructed CHED to resolve the pending cases in light of the fast-approaching enrollment period.

“CHED did not follow Congress’ instruction. Until now, we have yet to see any definitive action on the part of CHED with regard to the pending complaints,” Ridon said.

Rise for Education is set to file an omnibus complaint before CHED this week. If CHED fails to act on the complaints within the week, Ridon said that his group will push through with the filing of charges before the Office of the Ombudsman.

Another possible charge is “gross inefficiency,” which is the failure to act upon an essential matter without strong and justifiable reasons.

The youth lawmaker related that this is not the first time that CHED failed to act on tuition complaints. Last year, CHED explained that they “lost or misplaced” the complaints filed by students.

“CHED’s inaction indicated an indifference to the plight of students and blatant disregard for the complainants’ right to speedy disposition of cases,” Ridon said, noting that some colleges and universities with pending complaints have already begun charging new and higher fees.

Comments are closed.
