
Tuesday, May 20, 2014 - Islamabad—The defence budget only caters to the needs of the maintenance of military installations and we cannot buy ships, aircraft and submarines from this meagre money, said Air Vice Marshal Arshad Quddus, additional secretary Ministry of Defence.

AVM Quddus was addressing an event organised by the Senate Standing Committee on Defence, to have an ‘open discussion’ on the defence budget.

Out of the Rs627 billion of the defense budget, 43.4% is spent on salaries and allowance, 25.8% on transport, fuel, ration and medical treatment while 21.1% is spent on physical assets and 9.9% on civil works.

“This year the armed forces’ tail has become longer, while the teeth have shortened”, said Quddus.

‘Teeth’ are the proportion of expenditures being incurred on acquiring fighting assets to the expenses on logistical infrastructure and maintenance of troop, called ‘tail’.

Quddus said that teeth shortened to 21% while tail became longer to 79% this year. Last year, the size of teeth was 22% while 78% was spent on other heads.

He said military’s share on account of Coalition Support Fund reimbursements and United Nations peacekeeping forces should be treated within the announced defence budget. Quddus said that the army gets a share of 70% of total defense budget and 63% of it is spent on paying salaries and allowance.

The Air Force gets one-fifth of the total budget and spends 41.5% on physical assets while the Navy’s share is one-tenth of the total budget and it spends 40% of it on procurements. He said Pakistan was spending far less on defence when compared with regional peers.

It was a first in the parliamentary history of Pakistan, the Senate Defence Committee organized a detailed briefing for the media on the defence budget and launched the first-ever Media Manual on the defence budget here on Monday.

The briefing was given by Air Vice Marshal Arshad Quddus, Additional Secretary Defence, responsible for the budget.  The briefing was attended by a larger section of media as well as parliamentarians including Senators Farhatullah Babar, Saeed Ghani, Abdul Haseeb Khan, Sardar Ali Khan and Sughra Imam.
