
BOSTON, MA and ST. PETERSBURG, RUSSIA--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) -   Bradford Networks ™, the leading provider of rapid threat response solutions, today announced a strategic reseller agreement with INFOCONST IT Solutions. Based in St. Petersburg, Russia, INFOCONST is a leading reseller and consulting firm specializing in information security, cloud and MDM solutions. As the first channel partner for Bradford Networks in Russia, INFOCONST will add the company's solutions to its portfolio of leading IT security products and services in order to provide its customers with comprehensive solutions that address network access control and mitigate the risk of advanced cyber threats.

"Mobile device adoption and the Internet of Things (IoT) have created new security challenges that threaten global organizations," said Alexander Kolesnikov, COO, INFOCONST. "There is a significant market opportunity in Russia for network access control solutions. We chose to partner with Bradford Networks to help our customers respond to these challenges. The depth and breadth of its solution, its integration capabilities with our other security products, and its extensive experience were unmatched by others in the space."

Bradford Networks' patented solution portfolio enables unique visibility and control over every connection to the network. Bradford Networks continuously assesses the risk of every user and endpoint on the network, and provisions the appropriate level of network access based on granular and flexible security policies. Additionally, through its SmartEdge Platform, Bradford Networks integrates with the leading mobile device management (MDM), security information and event management (SIEM), next-gen firewalls, and advanced threat detection solutions to maximize network visibility, mitigate risk, and minimize threat response time.

"Network security impacts organizations around the world, and the need for network access control to address today's cyber threat landscape has accelerated our growth," commented Charlie McAlister, managing director EMEA, Bradford Networks. "INFOCONST clearly understands the market and customer needs, and their integrated approach to network security make them an ideal partner for Bradford Networks. We are very pleased to partner with INFOCONST and look forward to working with them to build our customer base in Russia."

Bradford Networks is the leading provider of rapid threat response solutions that minimize the risk and impact of cyber threats. The company's patented Network Sentry solution enables Cyber Security Teams to continuously assess the risk of every user and endpoint on the network, and automatically remove vulnerable and compromised devices that act as backdoors for cyber criminals. Through its SmartEdge Platform, Network Sentry seamlessly integrates with the leading Advanced Threat Detection solutions to correlate high-fidelity security alerts with a threat's foothold. This unique correlation bridges the silos of security, network, and endpoint information to enable confident, automated threat containment before it has an adverse impact on the business. Bradford Networks' network security solutions are used by more than 900 enterprise customers worldwide in markets such as healthcare, financial services, retail, government, education and more. For more information, please visit www.bradfordnetworks.com .

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
