
A large earthquake has rolled through California, damaging some buildings, igniting fires and knocking out power.

Jerusalem - When Pope Francis arrives in the Holy Land he will step into a political powder keg, with Israelis and Palestinians seeking to chalk up political points from his visit.

For Israel, increasingly isolated in the world over its relentless settlement juggernaut, it will be a chance to bask in the reflected glow of the pope's aura of tolerance.

"The very fact of the visit is a success", an Israeli official told AFP on condition of anonymity.

"Hopefully, it will encourage pilgrims to visit here."

In fact, the pope's "pilgrimage of prayer", which begins in Jordan on Saturday, will leave a relatively faint footprint in Israel.

His visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories will kick off on Sunday in the southern West Bank city of Bethlehem.

"He is taking a helicopter directly from Jordan to Palestine, to Bethlehem. It's a kind of sign of recognising Palestine", Father Jamal Khader of the Latin patriarchate in Jerusalem told journalists.

'Highly charged'

In Bethlehem, the pope will meet Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and then celebrate mass in front of the Church of the Nativity, traditional birthplace of Jesus, before visiting a nearby refugee camp.

"Knowing who he is, and his sensitivity for all those who suffer, I am sure that he will say something defending all those who are suffering, including the Palestinians who live under occupation", Khader said.

After a short flight to Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport where he will be greeted by Israeli President Shimon Peres and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, he will hold a top-level meeting with Orthodox Church leaders, before spending the night in the residence of the papal nuncio in annexed east Jerusalem.

Israel seized east Jerusalem in 1967 and calls the entire city its "united, undivided capital", in a move never recognised by the international community.

It is there that he will spend much of 26 May, apart from brief forays into Israel to pay his respects at the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial and visit Peres and Israel's two chief rabbis.

He will meet Netanyahu at the Vatican-owned Notre Dame complex, which lies on the seam line between east and west Jerusalem, for talks which will touch on politics, an Israeli official said.

"We shall be able to explain to him, from our point of view, what's happening politically in the region", he said.

"We shall explain to him the Iranian threat."

During the visit, the pope is expected to call for a peaceful resolution of the conflict with the Palestinians.

Any reference he makes to Israeli settlements, to the West Bank separation barrier, or to the question of Palestinian prisoners or refugees will be closely watched by both sides.

"Everything will be highly charged politically", said Hind Khoury, a former Palestinian minister for Jerusalem affairs.

Following the collapse of US-led peace talks last month, the Palestinians have resumed moves to seek recognition for their promised state in the international diplomatic arena and will be looking to the papal visit to provide fresh ammunition.

"This visit will help us in supporting our struggle to end the longest occupation in history", said Ziyyad Bandak, Abbas's advisor for Christian affairs.

"He will have a lunch with Palestinians, with families suffering from the occupation, then he will visit Dheishe refugee camp to witness the suffering of Palestinian refugees", he told Voice of Palestine radio.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
