
A top UN rights official has warned of a risk of a major exodus from rebel-held areas of east Ukraine because of  the near collapse of basic services there.

Ivan Simonovic also cautioned in an interview with AFP on Monday  against expecting that Sunday's election would provide a 'miracle'  that would resolve a crisis that threatens Ukraine's very  existence, saying the window of opportunity was closing fast.

The visiting UN assistant secretary-general for human rights  said the international community should heed the lessons of the war  in the former Yugoslavia to ensure that such a heavy price is not  paid in Ukraine.

He said the rebel-held region of Donetsk in the country's  eastern coal and steel heartland was running short of crucial  supplies such as medicines including insulin.

'I have an impression that Donetsk is on the verge of collapse  of social services ... the overall system is, I think, on the verge  of collapse.'

He said that during his discussions with local people in the  Donetsk region it was 'frightening' how many people were  contemplating leaving.

'And if things do not improve, we could have a major wave of  displaced persons coming from that area.'

Simonovic, a diplomat from Croatia, said he did not believe the  situation in Ukraine had yet reached the 'point of no return' but  warned that could happen if there was an escalation of violence.

'That window of opportunity (to end the crisis) may be closing  and the opportunity, while is still open, should be used both  nationally and internationally.'

'Elections will be the beginning of a new phase,' he said, just  days before the presidential poll being held in the face of  Russia's annexation of crimea last month and the uprising in the  east.

'But to expect a miracle out of elections is, I think,  unrealistic,' he added.

'We are facing a country that is increasingly being divided. We  are facing a country that may be heading to a very dramatic future  scenario. However, we are dealing with a country that can be  saved.'
