
Serban Toader has been reconfirmed as Senior Partner of KPMG in Romania and Moldova for a third consecutive mandate. Toader was first appointed as Senior Partner in 2007.

According to the press release of  KPMG,  as Senior Partner, Toader oversees the firm governance and strategy, as well as representing the company&prime;s interests both in Romania and on international markets. "Serban has shown energetic leadership in turbulent times and has been a promoter of innovation within the company, a critical factor for the sustainable development of the firm," said Frank Dostalek, President and CEO of KPMG in Central and Eastern Europe. "I am pleased that Serban has been reconfirmed in his position, and I am confident the firm will continue to grow in the next few years, offering high-quality services to our clients." The growth of the company turnover during Serban term confirms the positive trend of recent years, in spite of the uncertainties of the economic environment.

For the future, Toader is optimistic about KPMG prospects in Romania. "I believe that this is the decisive moment to encourage the Romanian business community to focus on entrepreneurship, look to the future, innovate, and pursue their growth ambitions. The business environment has become increasingly sophisticated and I am glad that the KPMG team successfully assists clients in the most complex projects, some of which are unique in Romania and Europe. A strategic element of my new term remains investment in human resources and recruitment of talent for audit, tax, and advisory. There is an optimism I see every day among my colleagues, and we are certainly confident that we will continue to be successful, and to play a positive role within our community."

During his career, Serban Toader has contributed to the development of professional services in audit, tax, and advisory in Romania and in Central and Eastern Europe, both as an auditor and as leader of one of the largest providers of professional services in Romania. At a regional level, Toader is a Member of the Board of KPMG in CEE, while in Romania he is a Board member of the Foreign Investors Council, the association of the largest foreign investors in Romania, as well as a Member of the Board of United Way, the non-profit organization which brings businesses together to work on community projects. Toader is a member of the Romanian Chamber of Financial Auditors (CAFR), of the Romanian professional accountants' association (CECCAR) and of the UK based Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). He has several prestigious academic qualifications, including an Executive MBA from Ecole Nationale des Ponts et Chaussees, Paris as well as diplomas from University of Edinburgh School of Management, London Business School and Harvard Business School.

KPMG is a global network of professional firms providing Audit, Tax and Advisory services. It operates in 155 countries and have 155,000 people working in member firms around the world. KPMG in Romania and Moldova operates from six offices located in Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, Constanta, Iasi, Timisoara and Chisinau. The company currently employs more than 650 partners and staff; Romanians and Moldovans as well as expatriates.
