
May 20, 2014, 5:49 a.m.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has delivered a stinging assessment of Papua New Guinea's progress on key development goals such as maternal health and infant mortality despite decades of Australian aid.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has delivered a stinging assessment of Papua New Guinea's progress on key development goals such as maternal health and infant mortality despite decades of Australian aid.

In a speech on Monday to an audience that included PNG Prime Minister Peter O'Neill and several of his ministers, Ms Bishop foreshadowed radical changes to the way Australian aid would be delivered to countries such as PNG.

Under changes to be unveiled in coming weeks, aid will focus strongly on boosting the private sector, trade and innovation, with tough performance benchmarks.

As a case in point, Ms Bishop said that on the cusp of its 40th anniversary of independence from Australia, PNG had gone backwards on many measures, despite receiving billions in aid money over the decades.

''I am troubled by the fact that despite a significant investment in aid into PNG over many decades, in some vital areas there has been no discernible progress,'' Ms Bishop told the Australia-Papua New Guinea Business Forum and Trade Expo in Cairns.

''I am troubled by the fact that PNG has fallen from 77th place on the UN Human Development Index in 1975 to 156th today and I'm troubled that PNG is not expected to meet one of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.''

The goals included  indicators such as maternal health and infant mortality, she said, ''so a new approach is needed and that's what I'm determined to deliver''.

Papua New Guinea has been one of the largest recipients of Australian aid, with about $520 million this year, second only to Indonesia.

Despite $7.6 billion of cuts to foreign aid delivered in last week's  budget, PNG is set to enjoy an increase in aid, largely because of Port Moresby's agreement to process and resettle asylum-seekers who were headed to Australia.

Ms Bishop said PNG was ''on the cusp of transforming its economy'' and could double its gross domestic product in coming years, particularly through large energy projects.
