
Elections in the European Union may exert some influence this week on overseas markets, particularly in Greece, while Ukraine's looming presidential election hints at a sharpening of the country's tension with Russia.

The U.K. and the Netherlands are set to kick off the EU Parliamentary elections on Thursday. The action ramps up to a 21-country finale on Sunday. Countries are not permitted to report results until the final polling place is closed in Brussels Sunday night. But exit poll results will keep a running tab on the action.

Analysts widely believe pro-EU incumbents will come under pressure, primarily from challengers on the left.

Elections in Italy, Germany and France are all expected to be telling. In Greece, center-right Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is fighting to hold together a fragile two-party majority.

Samaras has battled to convince the country that the worst has passed for its economy as he prepares to engage in fresh negotiations regarding Greece's EU debt and bailout obligations.

Some analysts anticipate that Greece's more extreme parties may siphon off some of the vote. If the hard-left Syriza party manages to corral more of the vote than the ruling Pasok and New Democracy parties, a Wall Street Journal analyst said, it could lead to "early national elections and a prolonged period of instability."

Ukraine, which is still wrestling with separatist insurrection in the east while fending off Russia's overbearing influence, is set to hold a presidential election on Sunday.

Possibly the most vital single event since the onset of the country's political crisis, the election will show whether the country has the resolve to continue to stand up against a concerted secession effort, possibly backed by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Sunday's vote is widely expected to be disrupted by the country's pro-Russian separatists. Reuters reported polling offices closing down "out of safety concerns," and that some campaign offices had been seized by unnamed parties.

Putin reportedly ordered his troops away from the Ukraine border Monday.

But the Washington Post quoted NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen saying there was not yet "any evidence at all that the Russians have started withdrawal of troops from the Ukrainian border."

     Investors.com.

     for free membership on Investors.com.

Top stocks' action is a good indicator of the market's strength.

© 2014 MarketSmith, Incorporated . Charts provided by MarketSmith are used by IBD under license agreement. MarketSmith is a registered trademark of MarketSmith, Incorporated.
