
WINFIELD -- Putnam County commissioners agreed Monday approved to request a smaller – and, county officials say, more likely to be awarded – grant to bring water service to rural residents in the northern part of the county.

This is the fourth consecutive year the county has requested a Small Cities Block Grant to fund water line extensions in the Manila Ridge area, which borders Mason County. The county has requested about $1.5 million each year, but commissioners are dropping the amount this year by $150,000.

Commissioner Andy Skidmore said the county probably won’t know until December whether it has received the grant, which provides federal funds and is administered by the West Virginia Development Office.

Terry Martin, project coordinator for the Regional Intergovernmental Council, is helping the county apply for the grant. He said the current plan is to extend service to 42 households, up from the 39 in last year’s grant application. He said several factors are helping the county reduce its grant request while increasing service, including using plastic pipe instead of ductile iron and cutting the diameter from 8 to 6 inches.

“The major cut is the price of plastic pipe,” Martin said.

The state Public Service Commission’s April 7 order that West Virginia American Water continue public water projects has also helped lower the request. West Virginia American has indicated it will commit $147,000 to the project, though Martin said that number still isn’t firm.

In 2012, West Virginia American decided not to contribute $200,000 for the Manila Ridge water line extensions. Water company officials slashed funding for public-private water partnerships all over the state in 2011, not long after the PSC rejected $10 million of the company’s requested $15 million rate increase.

The Putnam County Building Commission joined other entities from other counties in filing a complaint with the PSC.

The full Manila Ridge project is estimated to cost $1.7 million, with the county funding the roughly $200,000 needed atop the grant and West Virginia American’s contribution.

The lower grant request this year is not the first time the commission has adjusted its pleas for water extensions in northern Putnam. The Manila Ridge extensions were originally part of a larger request for about $6 million. County Manger Brian Donat said the full project would have provided water to residents in Manila, Jim and Bee ridges.

County officials said that, after trying for more than a decade to get funding for the full project, the commission decided to break the request up. Martin said the county was then finally able to achieve funding to extend service to about 95 households in the first portion, which Donat said served Jim and Bee ridges.

Martin said when that project finished in 2010, the extended lines provided the opportunity to expand to the adjacent Manila Ridge. He said the county has to extend water lines to Manila Ridge before it can provide water to the roughly 50 to 60 residents in a third section.

Sign up for the latest news delivered to your inbox each morning.

Thank you!
