
Published May 19, 2014 at 10:05 a.m.

It's a new week, and Distil, 722 N. Milwaukee St., has launched a brand new craft cocktail menu to welcome spring and look ahead to summer.

Daniel Beres, bar manager and consultant at Distil, says the goal with the new menu is really to get Distil back into the limelight with regard to great seasonal craft cocktails, while offering a Bourbon selection any connoisseur would brag to their friends about.

Classic cocktail lovers will find a friend in offerings like the Kentucky Mule, the Bourbon Sour and the Distil Manhattan, which features Elijah Craig 12-year bourbon, Cocchi Torino and Bittercube cherry bark vanilla bitters.

"For Dukes and Gods" features Broker's gin, lemon, grapefruit, melon, Bittercube Jamaican #1 bitters and sparkling sake.

Meanwhile, "Of Luck and Legend" pairs Elijah Craig 12-year bourbon with tropical kumquat, complex molé bitters and bourbon soaked candied date.

Tequila lovers will revel in the "Steep and Temper" featuring Casa Pacific tequila, bell pepper-habanero syrup, Cocchi Rosa and Bittercube Jamaican #2.

And the fruit-forward "Distil Sangaree" provides a wine-forward alternative containing Riesling, lemon, orange, rhubarb syrup, Combier, port, Yahara Bay apple brandy and Cava.

Berres, who trained under the tutelage of Nicholas Kosevich and Ira Koplowitz says that, although he's excited about all of the new cocktails, that the "Forbidden Flight" is one of his favorites.

The drink, which features Modest Vodka, "made in Madison," fresh mango, lime, house-made kiwi syrup, crème de framboise and Bittercube cherry bark vanilla bitters, is garnished with an edible nasturtium and served up in a martini glass.

"It's just gorgeous," he says. "A lot of bartenders like to turn their nose up at a cocktail made with Vodka -- mostly because vodka is odorless and tasteless, and they believe it brings nothing to a cocktail. I've realized over the years that there are so many Vodka drinkers, and you're not going to change them, so why not make them something amazing with Vodka?! Give the people what they want."

Disclaimer: Please note that Facebook comments are posted through Facebook and cannot be approved, edited or declined by OnMilwaukee.com.  The opinions expressed in Facebook comments do not necessarily reflect those of OnMilwaukee.com or its staff.

Recently, OnMilwaukee.com sat down with Milwaukee Ale House and Milwaukee Brewing Company owner Jim McCabe and talked Milwaukee, family, big decisions and, of course, beer.

There`s no lack of things to do here in Milwaukee, especially during the summer. But, here are a couple of events of which to take special note.

There`s never a lack of great ways for foodies to spend their time in Milwaukee. This week`s highlights include an "art meets food" experience, a dinner focusing on wines of the Côtes-Du-Rhône, and an old fashioned pig roast.

Milwaukee Cocktail Week is back for a second year this September. And tickets are on sale now for both the Kickoff Tailgate event and Cocktail College.

If you are trying to build an instant classic bar in Milwaukee`s crowded corner tavern scene, you need to set yourself apart. Classic cocktails are great, but there are plenty of East Side bars that already get it. Finks, 1875 N. Humboldt Ave., picks up where Red Room, that closed in 2012, left off. And it has pinball.

Milwaukee`s newest distillery is open to the public in Walker`s Point.

Stack`d opened in 2009 and, because it is primarily a burger bar, beer was the focus of the beverage offerings. About two years ago, Andrew Hartzell got behind the bar and started to introduce more craft cocktail options to the staff and customers.

Brewery and distillery tours are both informative and affordable ways to consume history and beer. Not surprisingly, there are many good ones in town, but also plenty of great tour opportunities beyond Brew City.

Tin Widow opened on Feb. 1 and recently the Walker`s Point lounge launched a new, signature drink menu.

This week`s #WeWant brings you some great locally made vodka, New Order, an education book and what could be your perfect grilling tool.
