
So I thought about it.

And you know what? Slap me with a Red River catfish if Moses ain’t exactly right.

To be sure, as individuals, we’ve all violated many, if not most or all, of the 10 Commandments. In our fallen, sinful state we have an inherent propensity to rebel against God’s perfect and holy will for our lives. “For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God” (Romans 3:23).

Thank God for making available a path, narrow as it is, for eternal redemption and salvation through Christ Jesus.

Still, there is a difference between individual sins and a philosophical worldview that embraces those sins as a matter of course. Modern liberalism – “progressivism,” leftism, secularism, pick your poison – is built upon, by and for sin itself. Liberalism’s entire fabric is constructed by precept planks that are soaked through and stained by man’s arrogant rebellion against our Creator God.

In sum, liberalism is folly. It represents man’s futile attempt to disorder God’s natural order. It’s the unholy brainchild of God’s very first enemy, given by that enemy to God’s favored creation, us, with the sole purpose of destroying that creation.

Unfortunately, we’re all too happy to help. Liberalism just formalizes the process, making sin public policy.

1. Thou Shalt Have No Gods Before Me.

At worst, liberalism denies the very existence of God in the forms of atheism and secularism, while, at best, it adopts that wonderfully “inclusive” blasphemy called religious pluralism. Pluralism presumes to give the false gods of false religions equal footing and denies Christ as He defined Himself: “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me” (John 14:6). Liberal “Christianity” falls under this category. It’s pluralism with a Christian stamp.

2. Thou Shalt Not Make Graven Images.

We’re talking idolatry here. Liberalism is built on it. First, there’s literal idolatry (the worship of man-made idols, animals or inanimate objects) enjoyed by our New Age friends. And then there’s everything else: pantheistic environmentalism, the idols of “reproductive freedom,” “sexual liberation and equality,” etc.

Essentially, liberalism worships the created over the Creator. Liberalism also worships the sins of the flesh (see Commandments No. 1, 6 and 7).

3. Thou Shalt Not Take the Lord’s Name in Vain.

To deny God is to take the Lord’s name in vain. To deny God as He defines Himself is to take the Lord’s name in vain. To misrepresent God, to call other gods God or to deny the deity of Christ is to take the Lord’s name in vain. Liberalism does this and much more. Many liberals also mock Christ, Christianity and Christians. They revile the exclusive nature of Jesus, His commands and His faithful followers. They hate truth.

4. Remember to Keep Holy the Sabbath.

This one is a bit tricky as it is widely understood to fall under the Jewish ceremonial law, not the moral law – the old covenant, not the new. Christ Himself healed (worked) on the Sabbath. That said, many Christians still view Sunday as the Sabbath and do, indeed, keep it holy. Not all liberals (there are certainly liberal Jews), but liberalism at large denies the Sabbath any significance whatsoever, much less a holy significance.

5. Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother.

Liberalism seeks to supplant parents with “progressive” government. It diminishes parental rights and encourages children to rebel against the antiquated conventions held by mom and dad. It denies that children even need a mother and father and bristles at the “heteronormative” lack of “gender neutrality” inherent within the very words “mother and father.” The sin-centered, counter-biblical notion of “gay marriage” desecrates God’s design for true marriage and family and is intended to undermine these cornerstone institutions.

6. Thou Shalt Not Murder.

Abortion, euthanasia, “pro-choice,” “reproductive rights,” “death with dignity.” Need I say more? Sacrosanct is the liberal rite of passage for a feminist mother to slaughter her own child in the womb. Fifty-five million dead babies later, liberals continue to worship at the pagan altar of “choice” (see Commandments No. 1 and 2).

7. Thou Shalt Not Commit Adultery.

This means all sexual immorality as identified in the scriptures, to include marital infidelity, fornication, homosexuality, bestiality, incest, et al. Liberalism, it seems, embraces all perversions of God’s design for human sexuality. Central to liberalism is moral relativism. When it comes to sex, you can do no wrong because there is no wrong.

8. Thou Shalt Not Steal.

With class warfare as its fuel, liberalism embraces the redistributionist philosophies of Marx and Engels. Liberalism thrives on theft. Like some completely incompetent and inefficient Robin Hood, liberal government steals from the middle class to give to the poor, thereby ensuring that liberal politicians remain in power and everyone else remains miserable.

9. Thou Shalt Not Bear False Witness.

I give you Saul Alinsky from his Rules for Radicals: “The third rule of ethics of means and ends is that in war the end justifies almost any means.” As we’ve learned from Barack “you can keep your insurance” Obama, that includes lying. Liberals lie. That’s what they do. The ends justify the means. Bearing false witness about detractors of liberalism is par for the course.

10. Thou Shalt Not Covet.

Yet, in reality, liberalism, in both philosophical and practical terms, simply signifies man’s predisposition to “call evil good and good evil.” It’s sin, all dolled up and doled out.

If the Gipper had lived another couple decades, he might’ve found out.

Matt Barber is founder and editor-in chief of BarbWire.com . He is an author, columnist, cultural analyst and an attorney concentrating in constitutional law. Having retired as an undefeated heavyweight professional boxer, Matt has taken his fight from the ring to the culture war. (Follow Matt on Twitter: @jmattbarber).

Posted in Opinion on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:51 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

gataca42 posted at 4:54 pm on Thu, May 22, 2014.

1. Thou Shalt Have No Gods Before Me.

Since each individual liberal can express their own belief.  Then some probably most will have one God.  Some dont believe at all.  Some are Pagan. I think Love of Ego, Fitting in, aquiring wealth seems to be the focus of many so called Christians I know.  If fact if you want to get ahead in many places they almost require you to believe in God or you dont get a job.

2. Thou Shalt Not Make Graven Images.

I dont see how a liberal would create an idol or other God to worship if you imply they are non theistic.  I guess you are implying polytheism?  Liberals would be anywhere from Christian, Islamic, Jewish, Athesist, and Agnostic.  But to place a broad brush on every liberal is narrow minded.

3. Thou Shalt Not Take the Lord’s Name in Vain.

I am not sure what liberals you associate. To talk poorly about others beliefs is disrespectful in any venue.  If you wish to believe in God your way, then thats fine.  Dont think every liberal goes around talking bad about God or being disrespecful to other Christians. In fact we should be respectful of all law abiding citizens.

4. Remember to Keep Holy the Sabbath.

If the Sabbath is so Holy then why buy clothes and other products from countries that use child labor, poor quality safety standards, and produce products on the Sabbath. If the shirt you wear to church was made on a Sunday have you sinned by providing a living for a corporation that lets is employees work on the Sabbath. Maybe we need a date on the shirts so we can buy the ones made from Monday thru Saturday?  Jewish people look at Saturday as the Sabbath so you would have to accomodate both time lines. Oh I forgot you are only speaking of the one true religion.

5. Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother.

Both Liberal and Conservative Christians would agree to Honor your parents.  Its disresptful to do otherwise.  If the Father or Mother beats their children, I think I would break this commandment for the health and safety of the child and call child protective services or is this a sin also.

6. Thou Shalt Not Murder.

murder.

7. Thou Shalt Not Commit Adultery.

Most Liberals I know are also against adultery and consider running around and sneaking around on their partners to be inappropriate. I am not sure what rock you crawled out from under but this aint the 70s free love liberal days like you think.  Liberals are very serious about thier partners and when they find the one they Love it may not be termed sin but your bags will be out on the front lawn just the same if you run around.

8. Thou Shalt Not Steal.

No sane liberal or conservative believes stealing is appropriate. I think not paying any corporate income tax while all other citizens have to pay their fair share is stealing.  Giving someone an unrealistic loan repayment plan on a house then uping the percentage so they cant pay is stealing.

9. Thou Shalt Not Bear False Witness.

Gossip and lying is wrong no matter your background.  Your Saul Alinsky reference is one microcosm of someone's thoughts.  Why do you think that every Liberal is a Saul Alinsky liberal?  Broad brush approach.

10. Thou Shalt Not Covet.

Class warfare was more something created by our capitialist expansionism.  Bain Capital went into thriving companies, gutted the infrastructure, copied the ideals, took the intellectual property, and gave it all to China so a few men could get really really rich.  I guess I am coveting the fact I would like to have a reasonable income as opposed to a slave wage.
