
MANILA, Philippines—A militant youth solon is set to file administrative charges against the Commission on Higher Education (cHED) if it continues to ignore the students’ complaints against tuition increases.

“For years, student groups including the National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP) and student councils of various colleges have continually filed complaints against bogus tuition hike consultations and other violations related to tuition increases,” Ridon said.

“Yet, year in and year out, Ched failed to address these complaints…” he added.

Although it has no draft of the complaint yet, the party-list intends to charge are Ched chair Patricia Licuanan, and commissioners Maria Cynthia Bautista, Ruperto Sangalang, Minella Alarcon and Alex Brillantes, Jr., Kabataan said.

According to the student alliance Rise for Education, 10 complaints have been filed before Ched against tuition hikes in De La Salle Araneta University, National University,  Far Eastern University Manila, FEATI University, San Beda College, University of the East (Caloocan), University of the East (Recto), University of Santo. Tomas, National Teachers College, and Lyceum of the Philippines University.

Kabataan said of the 1,683 private HEIs (higher education institutions) in the country, 353 already applied for tuition increases for the incoming academic year, 333 of which are for the collegiate levels.

Ridon clarified that they will file an omnibus complaint first before Ched this week.

If Ched still fails to address their complaint, he would take the case to the Ombudsman, he added.

Ridon said the House committee on higher and technical education, in a hearing last May 7, told Ched to resolve the complaints ahead of the enrolment season.

“Ched did not follow Congress’ instruction. Until now, we have yet to see any definitive action on the part of Ched with regard to the pending complaints,” said Ridon, who is a member of that committee.

“CHEd’s inutile character has already gone for too long. This time, heads must roll. Ched officials should be made accountable for their inaction that has largely contributed to the rising cost of education in the country,” he added.

To subscribe to the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper in the Philippines, call +63 2 896-6000 for Metro Manila and Metro Cebu or email your subscription request here.
