
Wang Xiujun, the deputy director of the China  National Internet Information Office, said political security is  fundamental, reported The People's Daily, the official newspaper of the  ruling Chinese Communist Party.

Wang's remarks coincide with a  broad crackdown on online freedom of expression that has intensified  since President Xi Jinping came to power last year. The crackdown has  drawn criticism from rights advocates at home and abroad.

Winning "the struggle for ideological penetration"  would "decide to a great extent the future of our party and country",  Wang said.

In February, Xi took the reins of a government body for  Internet security, saying he aimed to turn China into a "cyber power".  He said then that working on public opinion online was a long-term  responsibility and the Internet could be used to "spread discipline".

The  party renewed a campaign on online discourse last year, threatening  legal action against people whose perceived rumours on microblogs are  reposted more than 500 times or seen by more than 5,000 people.

China  maintains tight control over the media. Censorship is widespread and  Internet users cannot access information about many topics without  special software to circumvent restrictions.

Wang said China wants  to strengthen its security of networks and information systems in part  due to intrusions in cyberspace by foreign governments, according to the  People's Daily.

The case of former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden showed that "a few countries have used their superiority  in Internet resources and information technology to conduct large-scale  Internet surveillance and to steal a large volume of political,  economic, military and corporate secrets", Wang said.

He did not  name any country but questions over cyber-espionage have long cast a  shadow over China-U.S. ties, with each side accusing the other of  spying.

The Defence Ministry said in March China would beef up its  Internet security after the New York Times and Der Spiegel reported  that documents leaked by Snowden said the U.S. National Security Agency  accessed servers at China's Huawei Technologies [HWT.UL] to obtain  sensitive data and monitor executives' communications.
