
Santa Fe's unique location has shaped a culinary scene unlike any in the country. In general, Northern New Mexican cuisine is a specific regional style revolving around chiles, red and green, but even though Santa Fe is the epicenter of the state's chile trail, there is a lot more to the food scene here, from fine French to Italian, with plenty of influences from the native Pueblo Indians and neighboring Mexico, which long occupied the territory.

The Rocky Mountains, after stretching more than 3,000 miles south from the far reaches of British Columbia, abruptly end near Santa Fe, which has long made the city a vital trade center for those bypassing the onerous journey over the peaks. Since the early 19th century, the Santa Fe Trail was a primary overland route for east-west commerce and cattle drives, which essentially made this a Kansas City or Omaha with Mexican flair, and likely explains why the area is most famous for one signature dish, the green chile cheeseburger, a unique reflection of these cultural crossroads.

The best place to start any exploration of the city's cuisine is at the Santa Fe School of Cooking , in the heart of historic downtown. Classes are offered almost daily, sometimes more than one, throughout high season (May-October), and regularly though less frequently the rest of the year. While there are three-day Boot Camps for the more ambitious, the vast majority are single two- to three-hour sessions, either hands-on cooking classes based on specific dishes (rellenos, hot sauces, tamales) or broader demonstration classes often taught by high-profile visiting chefs, with such themes as contemporary southwestern, Native American or traditional New Mexican.

But you don't have to cook at all to get one of the best experiences the school offers visitors, its signature Restaurant Walking Tours. There are three different versions, each of which visits four standout Santa Fe eateries, where the chef meets privately with the group, explains the cuisine and provides food samples accompanied by adult beverages, from fresh lime margaritas to European wines to local craft beers. All tours are $115, about three hours long and offered most Wednesday and Friday afternoons. They are led by one of the school's chef instructors, are extremely popular and are perhaps the single best food travel experience in the city. Because most visitors focus so much on the chile-driven Northern New Mexican cuisine, tours take care to showcase the rest of the city's food scene and hit favorites such as 315, Santa Fe's long-running (20 years) favorite fine French eatery, four-time James Beard Award nominee James Caruso's wildly popular La Boca upscale Spanish tapas restaurant, and the works of Argentinean chef Juan Bochenski at the Rosewood luxury hotel Inn of the Anasazi. The walking tours quickly and tastily present the diverse scope of Santa Fe's downtown dining scene, all within a few minute walk of most hotels.

For a more decadent take on the cooking experience, the luxury Four Seasons Resort Rancho Encantado Santa Fe offers a private chef's table dinner experience for up to six in the kitchen of its Terra restaurant, serving modern interpretations of New Mexican-influenced classics. Diners get to participate in cooking and plating their dinner alongside a corps of experienced chefs. Terra also features special themed culinary nights about once a month, such as a wine and chile pairing event.

The other "must" on any visiting food lover's list is the Saturday Farmer's Market , in a dedicated indoor and outdoor facility in the redeveloped Railyard district. All the top chefs in the city shop here and you will see them in their whites, poring over local produce. Besides every iteration of green and red chilies, fresh, dried, powdered, and in sauces (it's the best place to load up on edible souvenirs), there is a wide variety of ready to eat food, from delicious flatbreads to exquisite chocolates to tamales, a popular local specialty, usually with a meat filling (beef is most common but creative varieties include BBQ pork) stuffed inside a cornmeal masa dough which in turn is wrapped in a leaf and steamed. One stand specializes in eccentric homemade donuts like green chile and bacon or lavender, while others sell apple cider slushies or dark Mexican drinking cocoa. It is also the place to stock up on dried hominy, made from corn kernels, the essential ingredient in another signature Northern New Mexican dish, pozole, a stew that most commonly consists of pork, green chiles and rehydrated hominy.

There are several longstanding restaurants known as showcases of Northern New Mexican cooking, all of which serve the most traditional area dishes including red or green chili enchiladas, pork and green chile stew, pozole and tamales. If you can't decide whether to order your enchiladas or burrito smothered in red or green sauce, order it "Christmas," or half and half. Perhaps the single most authentic local dish is cheese enchiladas with one or both sauces topped with an over easy egg. The best known place to try all these classics is cavernous family-owned Tomasita's in the Railyard, which has been dispensing its house made chile sauces for 40 years, and is justly famous for its sopapillas, fluffy pillows of airy sugar coated dough fried fresh to order and served warm alongside all entrees. Other top classic choices are The Shed, Maria's and Café Pasqual's.

The one dish you cannot leave Santa Fe without trying is the green chile cheeseburger. It's served pretty much everywhere, but for decades the most famous place of all has been Bobcat Bite, which is tiny and inconveniently located well outside of town. Last year the restaurant lost its lease and reopened in a larger and much more user-friendly space in downtown as Santa Fe Bite -- and still does an amazing version. Cowgirl Hall of Fame, a very locally popular bar and grill known for barbecue, won the citizen's vote for the city's best green chile cheeseburger in a recent contest run by the state's tourism board.

Get expert tips and advice delivered to your inbox.
