
Insight and analysis to help you understand emerging security concerns, and guidance to minimize risk exposure for your organization.

There was an error emailing this page.

Things are probably going to be a little (more) tense between the United States and China for a while Attorney General Eric Holder announced this morning that the US Department of Justice has indicted a number of Chinese military officials for cyber crimes perpetrated against US companies.

In a press conference revealing the charges, Holder stressed that this is not the sort of espionage and cyber spying nations routinely conduct against each other. What makes these activities different according to Holder is that they are pure corporate espionage for the purpose of giving Chinese companies an advantage against US businesses. In other words, this isn’t about the Chinese military trying to hack the Pentagon or Lockheed-Martin to spy on military secrets, this is about the Chinese government stealing proprietary information from private businesses in the US to give Chinese businesses an edge.

George Kurtz, President/CEO and co-founder of CrowdStrike , agreed in an emailed comment. “This is a watershed moment that many in the cyber security industry have been waiting for. CrowdStrike has been tracking many of these Chinese adversaries for years and has been pushing the government to actively pursue these groups through all available legal and diplomatic means."

It is difficult to say what—if anything—will actually happen as a result of these charges. The five Chinese military officials have apparently never stepped foot in the United States, and the odds of getting them here are slim. The Chinese government has already denounced the charges and declared that it will not cooperate in any way, so it seems unlikely that the accused individuals will be extradited to the United States to appear in court and dace the charges.

If nothing else, the indictment focuses attention on the problem. It lets foreign governments know that the US is monitoring these activities, and that they won’t be tolerated. Hopefully, it also raises awareness within private industry that they are potential targets, and need to take steps to prevent—or at least detect—hacking attempts.
