
Steven Shebtschuk, 43, of Azilda Ontario followed the moose as he walked into the town of Hanmer and fell into the water. He tried a couple of times to get out before moving over to the shallow end.

The Azilda resident told the Daily News he was riding his bicycle with friends last week in a town called Hanmer when a moose crossed the street in front of them. They then decided to follow the large animal around the corner and heard it ended up in the backyard of a home and fell into the pool.

It is not uncommon for moose to be spotted in the local neighborhoods and walk onto people's yards, but Shebtschuk, 43, was shocked at the site.

"I've never seen one in a pool before," he said.

The moose had broken through a fence protecting the yard but Shebtschuk was unsure how the animal found his way into the water. The moose tried to jump out several times but was unable to and someone at the scene alerted the authorities to contact the Ministry of Natural Resources to remove the animal.

When you get 500 or 600 pounds coming at you, you get out of the way in a hurry.

But then the moose was able to swim to the shallow end and clumsily make his way out. He turned to the gathered crowd for a moment before unsuccessfully trying to jump the fence. He eventually exited the property through the path he entered in.

The moose did not appear injured, he said.

For just one scary moment it appeared that the moose was going to charge the crowd.

After moving to the shallow end, the animal manages to get out of the pool unharmed.

The beast tries to escape as Steven Shebtschuk captures the whole thing on video.

A moose takes a bath in a suburban pool’s deep end.

Moose are generally unaggressive but the crowd did experience a scary moment when it appeared the moose might charge at them, Shebtschuk said.

"When you get 500 or 600 pounds coming at you, you get out of the way in a hurry," he said.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
