
Ontario Green Party leader Mike Schreiner is looking to win the Guelph riding in the June 12 provincial election.

"I'm doing great. I tell all my volunteers and supports to beware. I'm just sucking the energy out of all of them."

Schreiner, who was elected leader of Ontario's Green Party in 2009, doles out the necessary praise to his campaign staff before finally breaking it down.

"Sometimes people say to me, running for the Green Party, you're crazy. You guys are never going to win," he admitted Sunday at his Guelph campaign office.

"My response to that is running for the Green Party isn't the easy way to get elected. If was looking just to get elected, I would obviously run for another party."

It may not be easy, but the party is zeroing in on the Guelph riding for the June 12 provincial election. The city is also Schreiner's electoral district and the party's best shot at securing its first seat in Queen's Park.

As campaigning rolls into its second week, Schreiner spoke candidly about the party's platform launched last week in Toronto, which includes a cut in small business payroll taxes and an increase in corporate taxes by one per cent.

Most contentious, though, is the party's proposal to merge the province's public and Catholic school boards into a single system with French and English boards.

He argues the move would save the province $1.5 billion in duplicate administration, busing and housing. Ontario is the only province that exclusively funds Catholic schools.

"All of the people arguing about the constitutionality of it are just hiding behind the constitution instead of having an honest conversation with the public," he said.

Schreiner said schools currently don't have the resources to adequately service students, leading to rural and neighborhood schools shutting down and children with special needs being turned away. Catholic schools would benefit from the move, he indicated, thanks to increased resources and support staff.

More pivotal, Schreiner said, is the party's push for "honesty and integrity." He said voters are growing tired of the political status quo and want "honest answers."

But not as many people will get to hear Schreiner's platform points. That came to light Friday when the Green Party was sidelined from the televised leaders' debate set for June 3, which will feature Liberal Leader Kathleen Wynne, Progressive Conservative Leader Tim Hudak and NDP Leader Andrea Horwath.

In the 2011 general election, 126,201 Ontarians voted for the Green Party, about three per cent of the popular vote. Green Party Leader Elizabeth May was snubbed from the 2008 federal debate, but was eventually re-invited following a public outcry.

Schreiner called the latest move "anti-democratic" and urged for clearer rules in broadcast criteria.

"When a party has a full slate of candidates and is polling, as we are, close to 10 per cent, that represents a few hundred thousand Ontarians looking to vote," Schreiner said. "You're essentially silencing those people."

Still, Schreiner is well aware of the stigma that continues to plague his party. He stresses the party isn't made up of "tree-hugging, pot-smoking, Birkenstock-wearing hippies," but rather small business owners and blue-collar workers.

"We're showing you can be fiscally responsible and balance budgets, while addressing social justice issues and environmental sustainability. You can also have profitable businesses without trashing the planet."
