
MarketResearchReports.biz added deep and professional market research reports on "Global And China CMOS Camera Modules Industry Report 2013-2014" analysis and overview.

In Chinese mobile phone market, 8MP will be replaced by 13MP which has become the standard configuration of mobile phones priced at RMB1,000 or above in 2014. Chinese brands use 13MP more widely than foreign brands. The mobile phones made in China are always featured with high-end hardware configuration. 30% of the domestic mobile phones will be equipped with 13MP in the first half of 2014 and about 50% by the end of 2014 (exported ones are excluded). Both of rear and front cameras have higher and higher pixels. 5MP front cameras are the current mainstream, while the mobile phones with 13MP front cameras have been launched.

In 2013, the CMOS image sensor shipment reached 3.26 billion units at an increase of 15.2%, and the market size hit approximately USD8.008 billion. The shipment is expected to rise by 16% to 3.782 billion units, and the market size will be USD8.698 billion or so in 2014. Camera modules are not only applied to photographing, but also motion sensing for postural control, which will propel the market.

Amazon’s upcoming smartphone has not only a front camera and a rear camera, but also four VGA cameras which are used for gesture control, so that users can manipulate the phone without the touch screen. Microsoft's Kinect 2 also uses dual cameras to achieve 3D gesture control. Furthermore, HTC’s M8 adopts two rear cameras in order to improve the picture quality.

In 2013, the CMOS camera module market size attained approximately USD13.7 billion, up 18.9% from 2012; but in 2014, it will shrink greatly, up merely 6.7% to USD14.6 billion. The market competition became fiercer in 2013, especially the price wars; therefore, almost all of CMOS camera modules saw a decline of about 2 percentage points in gross margin.

Japan Konica-Minolta is the first one that exits from the fields of CMOS camera modules and mobile phone cameras due to unbearable falling profits. O-film, a company in Mainland China, has invested RMB2 billion in CMOS camera modules. As the world's largest film-based touch screen vendor, O-film has extensive customer resources, and it intends to enter the CMOS camera module field with competitive prices in order to become the largest camera module company in Mainland China. O-film’s gross margin was less than 6% in 2013.

Power management ICs are widely used across different industries such as consumer electronics, automotive, telecommunication & networking and medical, among others. At present, various types of power management ICs being used are voltage regulators, battery management IC, integrated ASSP power management IC and motor control IC among others. Technological advancements and increasing demand for battery operated devices are the major factors driving the market at present. The market is expected to see high growth as the demand for consumer electronics and automobiles is expected to increase in the coming years.

This report has been segmented by type, application, and geography. The study also includes the drivers, restraints, and opportunities (DROs), and value chain of the power management IC market. In addition, the forecast from 2013 to 2019 has been covered along with current and future trends that are expected to impact demand.

By geography, the market has been segmented into North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and RoW. The present market size and forecast until 2019 have been provided in the report along with the detailed analysis and opportunities in these regions.

The report also analyzes macro economic factors influencing and inhibiting the growth of the market. Porter’s five forces analysis offers insights on market competition throughout its value chain. In addition, the market attractiveness analysis provided in the report highlights key investing areas in this industry. The report will help manufacturers, suppliers, and distributors to understand the present and future trends in this market and formulate their strategies accordingly.

This report provides strategic analysis of the global HEMS market, and the market growth forecast for the period 2013 to 2019. The scope of the report includes competitive analysis of various market segments based on the products, technologies and in-depth cross sectional scrutiny of the HEMS market across different geographic segments. To aid in strategic decision making, the report also includes competitive profiling of leading players in the industry, their market share and various business strategies adopted by them. The market attractiveness analysis and Porter’s Five Forces analysis included in the report provide insight into market dynamics and industry competition.

The report also provides breakdown and review of various factors affecting the market growth, which are appropriately described as market drivers, restraints, and opportunities. These factors determine various existing trends and their impact on market growth. In all, the report includes a holistic analysis of the global HEMS market, and provides an estimate of growth for the period 2013 to 2019, keeping in mind the various factors affecting the market.
