
The red carpet is normally the place for stars to show off the most recent — and most expensive — designer dresses.

So this year’s Baftas were rather unusual. Because rather than Chanel, Gucci or Valentino, most of the celebrities in attendance were wearing frocks from House of Fraser.

Yes, the department store more commonly patronised by mothers-of-the-bride in search of fascinators and pastel suits has dipped a toe into the highly competitive world of celebrity dressing.

And it seems to have tempted most of the Bafta attendees into its gladrags.

Take Susanna Reid, who recently defected from the BBC to ITV’s Good Morning Britain. She wore a pink Clara dress by HoF brand Biba — priced at £289 to you and I, free for Susanna.

But it was so clingy it left observers wondering why she couldn’t have shelled out on a decent bra to wear underneath.

Susanna’s colleague, Kate Garraway, had a freebie of her own, albeit the same frock as her co-star in a different colour — a champagne version.

HoF also dressed pop star and Strictly contestant Sophie Ellis-Bextor in a stunning Dynasty black sequin dress.

Soap star Michelle Collins modelled a  champagne lace dress by Ariella, while Phoebe Lettice-Thompson of Made  In Chelsea chose a Biba feather cape, £65, and a green patent clutch  from the department store.

Another Biba at House of Fraser fan was Kerry Howard, star of the BBC Three series Him & Her, in a £149 green draped dress.

And actress Emily Atack, of The Inbetweeners and Dancing On Ice, chose a HoF Mary Portas jacket, £99, and trousers, £69.

Even the men succumbed to the  temptations of House of Fraser. Hollywood star Sam Neill, Jerome Flynn  of Ripper Street and The One Show’s Matt Baker all turned up in suits  provided by the store.

So  how did House of Fraser manage to take over the Baftas? Unsurprisingly,  many are muttering that it has rather more to do with its generous  freebie policy than its fashion appeal.

The store made its first moves back in April, when the Bafta nominations were announced.

Nominees were encouraged to get in touch with House of Fraser as one of the award’s sponsors, and were told they could pop into the store to select an outfit, or request to have dresses sent to them.

For the seriously disorganised, there was another option: turn up to the House of Fraser suite at the Corinthia Hotel in London on the day of the Baftas and waltz off with a freebie there and then.

House of Fraser spokesman Gayle Griffith said: ‘We are the official menswear and womenswear sponsor to the Baftas. We reach out to all the nominees and the citation readers and offer them clothes.

Ms Griffiths added that sometimes the freebies were only loans — if something was a sample from next season’s collection, for instance — but generally the clothes were complimentary to anyone with a high enough profile.

It wasn’t the end to HoF’s largesse. They also gave a couple of items for the ceremony’s goody bags: a clutch bag and Kenneth Cole bow tie.

So what has made them so generous? Well, amid much gloom on the High Street, the chain reported a stellar Christmas.

While their rivals Marks & Spencer and Debenhams struggled, they claimed their best ever trading period, with profits up by 4.3 per cent.

The independent chain was also recently sold to the Oriental conglomerate Sanpower, which is keen to open 50 stores in China, four in Russia and two in Abu Dhabi.

Sanpower chairman Yuan Yafei said House of Fraser has ‘a strong and iconic heritage brand in the UK and abroad... It has the type of department store management system that the Chinese department stores lack’.

Whether he will opt to keep the uber-generous freebie policy for stars who surely can afford to clothe themselves remains to be seen.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
