
For the past two years I have used this space to blog about a wide range of issues in my role as a mental health advocate. Sometimes I've shared deep and personal details about my life and other times I've suggested ways in which we can all advance the mental health agenda in this country.

I haven't been afraid to specifically call out celebrities for furthering mental health stigma; other times I've defended them for being the victim of stigma. And sometimes corporations have been the subject of my blogs. I have a habit of blogging when I'm ticked off and the subject matter of this blog is no exception. This time it's personal; real personal!

Toronto Mayor Rob Ford and his brother City Councilor Doug Ford seem to make the news on a daily basis saying something shocking. On occasion these shocking things have made international headlines. Sidebar: I am stunned television newscasts have yet to create their own graphics package and theme music and devote a specific segment to what comes out of the Ford Brother's mouths.

Over the weekend it was reported that Doug Ford wants a community based group home located in a residential neighborhood of west Toronto, to be moved. According to CP24 Ford was OK with the group home moving into the neighborhood and was told it would house "a few kids with autism who wouldn't leave without supervision" but feels mislead after learning some of the residents with allegedly violent tendencies were able to leave the property unsupervised.

According to the Etobicoke Guardian , The Griffin Centre (which operates the group home) says Ford was told exactly what kind of facility would be housed in the neighborhood. Ford alleges emergency personnel have responded to the home multiple times and cars have also been broken into.

Enough of what Ford has to say. I lived in group homes in 'normal neighborhoods' for nine years. Yes, everybody in the neighborhood knew what the house was. I'll also admit at times the fire department, paramedics, and police had to respond to the group home. However, not one bad thing was ever said to me or other residents by the neighbors.

The neighbors were nothing but welcoming to us. Sure, they recognized the challenges we faced and I'm sure some days they were grateful it was us facing those challenges and not them. It is my opinion that the neighborhood recognized they played an essential part of our recovery. In order for us to succeed and thrive we had to learn what it meant living in a very real community.

Mental health centres (otherwise known as psychiatric institutions or hospitals) do have a purpose, but they should not house people over the long term unless ordered by a court or if agreed to by a team of mental health professionals. This should only happen in the rarest of circumstances.

It is my opinion that if a resident of a group home in a neighborhood is such a disturbance and cannot thrive in such an environment, they will be relocated and not necessarily to another neighborhood. It may be to a hospital or even into the suburbs where neighborhoods are less condensed.

Ford is alleging cars are being broken into. I don't know if this is true or not but the allegations alone suggest Ford believes people with mental illness to be violent.

There are concerns by Ford along with residents that the group home would drive down property values. There is no evidence to suggest this is true. Any neighborhood I've ever lived in, including downtown Toronto, hasn't seen an influx of homes put up for sale as a result of the group home moving in, nor have residents complained of their properties losing value.

People with mental illness are not violent as Doug Ford suggests. They are deserving of being given the opportunity to live in the community like everybody else. There is no denying there will be the odd disturbance. However, I hope the neighbors give The Griffin Centre a chance. I am hopeful within a matter of time they'll see the group home makes the neighborhood and community a more diverse and richer place to live in.

In March, former mayoral candidate Sarah Thomson accused Rob Ford of grabbing her behind while at an event. She  later suggested the mayor was so out of it that she wondered if he was on cocaine. Ford has denied the accusations.

In November of 2012, an Ontario Superior Court Judge ordered Rob Ford to be removed from office for violating Toronto's Conflict-of-Interest Act. The ruling stemmed from Ford's participation in a council vote to recommend he repay donations that he solicited for his private football foundation using official city letterhead. After weeks of uncertainty about who would replace Ford, the mayor won his appeal, allowing him to remain in power.

Ford's role as coach of a high school football team has repeatedly landed him in hot water. From a city bus used to ferry the team home after a reported brawl, to missed council meetings and court appearances, Ford's gridiron exploits have made headlines again and again. Despite the controversy, Ford has maintained that he's not giving up his other job to focus on running the city.

On a trade mission to Chicago, Ford infamously confused Winnipeg and Windsor, a verbal stumble that prompted chuckles on both sides of the border.

A video clip of Ford falling while attempting to throw a football at a Grey Cup event was quickly turned into GIF image that went viral.

In October of 2012, a photo hit the web of Ford reading while driving. The mayor admitted to doing it, but refused to hire a driver, despite pleas from the police and political allies.   The incident was far from the first Fordian fail on the road. The mayor has also been accused of giving a motorist the finger while driving and has admitted that he pleaded guilty to refusing to provide a breath sample after driving under the influence of alcohol in Florida.

A photo hit the web in September of 2012 of Ford posing with a neo-Nazi dressed in a foreign military uniform. Ford explained that he was unaware of the man's political beliefs. At least one major Jewish group said it was satisfied the mayor meant no harm.

For several months in 2012, Ford took part in a very public weight-loss campaign. Weigh-ins staged before the press meant the mayor had nowhere to hide, and after some initial success, he actually started putting on pounds. Ford admitted to giving up soon after.

Ford called the police in May of 2012 and alleged that Toronto Star reporter Daniel Dale trespassed on his property. Dale denied the allegations and said Ford approached him with a raised fist. Ford would subsequently refuse to speak with reporters from the Star or to co-operate with the paper in any way.

Ford has twice bucked tradition and refused to attend Toronto's Pride parade, prompting widespread criticism.

Late in 2011, Ford called the police after Marg Delahunty (Mary Walsh) and the crew of CBC's satirical show "This Hour Has 22 Minutes" showed up at his home. While other politicians have reacted with laughter when approached by Delahunty, Ford said the "ambush" at his family home crossed the line.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
