
The couple presents the Diamond Jubilee Plate to the winning horse owner in November 2012 in Melbourne, Australia. Joe Castro, AFP/Getty Images.

As Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, make their third tour of Canada as a couple, Canadians will have a chance to see the future monarch and his wife up close for a few days — a few days that will undoubtedly show the couple’s great affection for one another.

Increasingly, news photographers have captured the couple smiling, laughing and putting a gentle hand on one another in full view of the public eye. At the recent funeral of the Duchess’s brother, Mark Shand, Prince Charles was seen holding his wife’s hand, comforting her as she openly wept.

The images are in stark contrast to the perception of the royals as cold ambassadors who conceal their feelings. And they also show a very different side of Prince Charles, whose first marriage, to Diana, Princess of Wales, was characterized by photographs of the couple looking distant and grim.

The relationship of the future monarch and the former Camilla Parker Bowles was once the source of great controversy, and any public acknowledgement of their obvious love was unthinkable for years. But public opinion has shifted, and softened, in recent years and cast the couple in a more favourable light.

Now, almost 17 years since the Princess of Wales was killed in a Paris car crash and nine years since Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles were finally married, the couple seems at ease in their relationship — with each other, and the public.

And while the couple does not attract the same crowds as Prince Charles’s son, Prince William, and his wife, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, the royal tour of Canada will undoubtedly see scores of fans turn out to see the once-maligned couple. And when they do, they shouldn’t be surprised to see Charles and Camilla being openly affectionate, proudly displaying a relationship that was hidden for so many years.

Here is a selection of photographs of Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, on tour at home and around the world.

© Copyright (c) Postmedia Network Inc.

The couple presents the Diamond Jubilee Plate to the winning horse owner in November 2012 in Melbourne, Australia. Joe Castro, AFP/Getty Images.
