
Wong shows the press the letter that was distributed to the public in the last two days.

KUCHING: Dato Sri Wong Soon Koh brushes off a poison letter purportedly written by a Parti Tenaga Rakyat Sarawak (Teras) member claiming that the party does not welcome Chinese and attacking Wong personally.

Wong said he heard about the letter on Sunday and was given the letter by a community leader yesterday.

He said it was the first time he was attacked through a poison letter and rubbished it as “good only for dustbin” because no one would believe the content of the letter.

“Will people believe what it is said here? I don’t think so. Let the people judge,” said Wong at a press conference here yesterday.

When asked if the letter would make him rethink his involvement in Teras, Wong said he would not be wavered by the letter.

The letter also claimed that “Teras is a Dayak-based party for the Dayaks only”, and that they had “never trusted Chinese politicians such as (Tan Sri) James Wong Kim Ming, (Datuk) Sng, Larry Sng, (Tan Sri) Tiong King Sing and Wong Soon Koh”.

“All of them have been proven to be trouble-makers with selfish personal agenda in Dayak-based parties such as SNAP, PBDS, PRS and SPDP,” said the letter.

Attacking the Senior Minister personally the letter called him a “selfish politician without any principle and an opportunist”.

The seven-paragraph letter also pointed out that “Chinese in Teras can never be the President”.

“Soon Koh needs your numbers because he wants to retain his ministerial post.

“Out of 11 YBs in Teras now, there is only one lone Chinese in Soon Koh. If Teras were to admit Chinese SUPP members, the Chinese will control the party within a decade and Dayak leaders will be sidelined,” the letter concluded.

The letter dated intentionally or by coincidence May 16 which happens to be Wong’s birthday, ended with a post script that a copy was faxed to Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak and Chief Minister Tan Sri Adenan Satem.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
