
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

With Credit Suisse Group poised to become the first bank in more than a decade to admit to a crime in the US, regulators have been reaching out to some of the bank's biggest business partners to avert a panic, according to a source.

The bank had reached a deal to plead guilty as early as  Tuesday to resolve claims it helped Americans evade taxes and would pay about $US2.5 billion to the US Justice Department and regulators,   sources said.  Credit Suisse chief executive  Brady Dougan and chairman Urs Rohner might step down, according to Swiss press  reports.

Switzerland's second-biggest bank would be allowed to continue operating in the US, other  sources said.

In their outreach before the expected guilty plea, regulators reassured some of the largest US financial companies that the  situation would not  become a repeat of the crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers, the person briefed on the conversations said.

''It becomes a very weighty decision for us to cut someone off, and we wouldn't do it lightly,'' Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein, said after his bank's  annual meeting in Texas.

The biggest challenge facing Credit Suisse could be that some of its own clients, such as pension funds, have internal requirements that prohibit them from doing business with an entity that has pleaded guilty to a crime. Customer flight could hurt the bank's credit ratings, boosting its borrowing costs. Representatives of two of the largest US banks said they intended to continue their trading and banking  relationships with Credit Suisse.

Mr Dougan, the first American to serve as sole chief executive of Credit Suisse, is one of the few leaders of a global bank to have endured the financial crisis and the scandals that followed. A 24-year veteran of the company, Dougan became chief executive in May 2007 after heading its investment bank.

''Clearly the excitement around Brady [Dougan] is building up to something of a fever pitch,'' said Christopher Wheeler, an analyst at Mediobanca in London. ''If he does leave the bank that would not be good news because people see him as a pretty safe pair of hands.''

The bank would pay almost $US1.8 billion to the Justice Department, more than $US600 million to the New York Department of  Financial Services and  $US100 million to the Federal  Reserve, the  people said.

Under terms of the agreement, Credit Suisse's parent company would plead guilty to a conspiracy charge in a US federal court in  Virginia, the people said.

You'll be able to work from gate to gate ... as long as you have the right device.
