
The newspaper quoted sources in the Russian delegation and said Russia's United Aircraft Corporation (UAC) had drawn up a sketch project and a feasibility study of the prospective long-haul wide-body jet.

"This project is supposed to be a rival for US and European aircraft, and China is interested in building at least 1,000 jets. If the project is successful we may set up a joint venture at some point to compete full-scale against Airbus and Boeing. We are prepared to buy these aircraft for domestic needs, as well," a source told Kommersant.

The second project will yield a heavy helicopter for Chinese military and civilian structures. "We offered them to buy Mil Mi-26 helicopters but our partners declined that option. They wished to design a helicopter capable of transporting up to 15 tonnes of cargo, so we suggested a concept of profound modernization of the Mi-26 and expressed readiness to start from scratch and to provide exclusive customization," the source continued.

According to the newspaper, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin and Russian Helicopters head Alexander Mikheyev are going to China today to discuss the issue before a meeting of the two chiefs of state.

"We are ready to transfer some technologies within the framework of joint ventures, because prototypes will be built on parity terms and under our control," the source told Kommersant.

A source close to the Federal Service for Military-Technological Cooperation told the newspaper Beijing procured more than $1.8 billion worth of Russian armaments and military hardware in 2013 and ranked fourth amongst buyers of Russian military products.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said he believes the contract for the supply of gas to China will enable Russia to diversify its pipeline routes and will help China reduce its energy deficit. "We are consistently moving towards the formation of a strategic energy alliance," Putin said. Simultaneously, "active work is being done to reduce the dependence of bilateral trade on external economic factors."

"The agreements on the export of Russian natural gas to China are in a high degree of readiness. Their implementation will mean diversification of pipeline routes of gas supply for Russia and will help our Chinese partners reduce their energy deficit and boost environmental security by using 'pure' fuel," Putin said in an interview with the leading Chinese media before his visit to China.

Having pointed out the successful energy cooperation between Russia and China, Putin recalled the implementation of a large-scale project for supplying crude oil to China via the Skovordino-Mohe pipeline, which is worth over $60 billion.

"For this reason, special attention is given to the breakthrough sectors such as boosting energy efficiency, environmental protection, production of medications and medical equipment, development of new information technologies, and nuclear energy and space to improve trade and economic cooperation," Putin said.

The Russian president said a number of joint projects in forty priority areas, in which some $20 billion is invested, are now being implemented.

"We have reached an agreement on joint development of a wide-body long-haul plane. We also plan to create a heavy helicopter. I am confident that our companies are capable of manufacturing competitive products and supplying them to world markets," Putin said, Interfax reports.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has said he is always glad to visit hospitable China. The expansion of ties with China is Russia’s indisputable foreign policy priority, Putin said in an interview for the Chinese media ahead of his visit to China. Bilateral cooperation has reached a higher level of comprehensive strategic partnership, he said.

Speaking about his upcoming talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping, Putin said he hoped they would give a new powerful impetus to deeper cooperation in all spheres and a closer coordination of the two countries’ efforts on the international scene.

A large package of bilateral documents reflecting future cooperation priorities is expected to be signed during Putin’s visit.

Russia and China have been actively advancing the idea of a new security architecture and sustainable development in the Asian-Pacific region, based on the principles of equality, respect for international law, the principle of the indivisibility of security and the non-use of force or threats to use force, Putin said.

He stated the absence of any political problems between China and Russia, which could impact their mutual course for further wide-ranging cooperation.

"Thanks to our joint efforts, we have built a truly exemplary partnership that should be a model for major world powers. It rests on respect for each other’s interests and effective work for the benefit of our countries," Putin said.

He pointed out that the bilateral cooperation potential was far from exhausted. Among cooperation priorities at the current stage Putin singled out broader economic ties and cooperation in science and technology.

"Of course, we shall continue to resist attempts at falsifying history, at heroizing fascists and their henchmen, and at casting aspersions on the memory and good name of liberation heroes," he said.

"A little more than 20 years ago Russia and China succeeded to reach an unprecedentedly high level of comprehensive strategic partnership, which is based on mutual respect and trust, taking into account mutual interests, mutually beneficial cooperation and non-interference in domestic affairs," he said.

"Contacts between the leaders of our countries play an important role in the process of mutual rapprochement between Russia and China. Russia praises the fact that Chinese President Xi Jinping had made his first foreign visit after taking the post of president to Moscow in March 2013. Then, leaders of our countries met several more times and President Vladimir Putin’s visit to China will certainly be an important landmark event in relations between our leaders," Denisov said, adding that "Moscow and Beijing value special nature of bilateral partnership and consider its further development as a priority trend of their foreign policy."

Russian President Vladimir Putin will pay an official visit to China on May 20 at the invitation of his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping, the Kremlin press service has reported, according to Interfax.

The leaders of Russia and China are expected to meet in Shanghai to discuss some of the key issues on the bilateral agenda.

In addition to that, a set of important documents concerning the two countries' cooperation in trade, business, the energy sector and humanitarian affairs should be signed during Putin's visit to China.

The sides will also discuss the present-day state of Russian-Chinese contacts in the international arena and their prospects.

Putin's visit is expected to herald a new stage of bilateral relations accompanied by a comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation, the Kremlin press service said.

"Joint work to step up international stability, create conditions for broad international co-operation, take joint actions to settle global regional problems is a basis of foreign political philosophy of our country," the Russian foreign minister noted.

"A good example of mutually beneficial partnership is unprecedentedly high level of Russian-Chinese relations which turn in an increasingly significant factor in world politics," Lavrov said, adding that "There are also relations within the troika (three) of Russia, India and China and between the BRICS states (the developing-nation assembly of Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) which develop actively their ties with regional structures in Latin America and on other continents."

All rights reserved.
