
Authorities in Vietnam have come under fire from dissident groups for blocking peaceful anti-China rallies in the capital Hanoi and the economic hub Ho Chi Minh City only weeks after permitting such demonstrations, which had turned violent and tarnished the country’s image among foreign investors.

Activist Nguyen Anh Tuan said the authoritarian government of Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung had “taken advantage” of last week’s violence when enraged mobs torched or otherwise damaged hundreds of foreign-owned businesses, killing two Chinese nationals and injuring about 140.

He said that a text message sent to Vietnamese cellphone users at the weekend saying Dung had ordered the security forces to prevent any illegal acts following the violence in Binh Duong and Ha Tinh provinces implied that the government associated the violent unrest with peaceful rallies that were planned in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City on Sunday and that were eventually barred.

He said peaceful protests are key to preventing China from making territorial gains against Vietnam following Beijing’s deployment of a giant oil rig in disputed waters off the coast of Vietnam on May 1 which ignited the anti-China riots and caused the worst breakdown in ties between the two Communist neighbors since a short border war in 1979.

“It shows that they are very cunning, but to me this is unwise because one needs to employ a smarter strategy against China’s [actions],” Tuan said.

Vietnamese Catholic priest Dinh Huu Thoai, of the Saigon Redemptorist Church in Ho Chi Minh City, also criticized the government’s response.

“This was not a wise move by the government—it was a cowardly and stupid thing to do,” he said.

Dissidents said Vietnamese were becoming increasingly frustrated with their government’s internal response to the territorial spat with China.

“When they forbid the people to voice their opinion, then who will tell the world about Vietnam?” Hanoi-based writer Thuy Linh asked.

“I feel that the Vietnamese have become lonelier than ever before. We have no friends, no allies. Who will stand up for our country when invaders come?” she said.

Linh said that Dung’s text message, which also urged the Vietnamese people to maintain their patriotism and defend their country’s sovereignty, was a contradiction and had left the public confused.

“It’s been like this for a long time and this is just the peak of [the government’s] flip-flop behavior,” she said.

At the weekend, police in Hanoi closed off streets and a park close to the Chinese Embassy and dispersed journalists and protesters.

Police were also stationed outside well-known dissidents’ houses, preventing them from leaving, according to activists.

One of those arrested on Saturday, named Trung, was severely beaten by uniformed police and thrown into a van with government license plates, a protester who spoke on condition of anonymity said. It was unclear where he was taken.

In Ho Chi Minh City, police dragged away several demonstrators from a park in the city center.

Huynh Kim Bau, one of 54 people who signed a petition last week calling for protests in Ho Chin Minh City, told RFA that he and all the other signatories had been guarded by authorities and denied permission to leave their homes.

Last week also saw 800 people arrested in Binh Duong and over 200 others detained in Dong Nai province for their involvement in riots in several industrial parks in the two localities on May 13 and 14, according to the official Tuoi Tre news agency.

But some groups said that anti-China protesters had capitalized on the situation to create violence that had tarnished the image of the country.

Pham The Duyet, the former chairman of the Vietnam Fatherland Front—an umbrella group of pro-government “mass movements” which has close links to the ruling Communist Party of Vietnam—told RFA in an interview that protesters had been using patriotism as an excuse to break the law.

“Expressing patriotism in this way has only caused more harm,” said Duyet, who is also a former member of the Communist Party’s Central Committee.

“We need to bring to justice the people who destroyed things, and who jeopardized production and relations with the people who came to work with us,” he said.

Reported by Anh Vu and Mac Lam for RFA’s Vietnamese Service. Written in English by Joshua Lipes.

Thank you Mr. Trinh, you just remind me about our hero Ly Thuong Kiet. Yes we will defeats the Han Chinese if the Vietnamese communist regime gives up and not working for Han Chinese.

This book of heaven is punishing Vietnam for invading its neighboring countries for centuries .

I wonder what would the viet dissidents say when Khmer ask for Koh Tral back. The answer is definitely a Big NO.So I don't have the least sympathy for them. I hope China succeeds in its goal for claiming the South China Sea and does't give an inch to the viet.Thank you big china brother. if the viet dare just give them a bloody nose for the Khmer.

As said you will be suffered a vanquishable destruction!
