
Relatives of four British sailors missing in the Atlantic Ocean pleaded yesterday for the search for their loved ones to be resumed.

The US coastguard called off the hunt for the crew of 40ft yacht Cheeki Rafiki on Sunday after two days, saying the men were unlikely to have survived in the severe weather for more than 20 hours.

But family and friends of the yachtsmen – who were sailing back to Britain from a Caribbean regatta when their boat capsized – believe they are still alive and awaiting rescue.

Sir Robin Knox-Johnston, the first person to sail solo non-stop around the world, said it was 'very likely' the four experienced sailors had escaped into the boat's life-raft.

Another theory is that they are surviving in an air pocket underneath the vessel's hull. Cheeki Rafiki captain Andrew Bridge, 22, and crew members James Male, 23, Steve Warren, 52, and Paul Goslin, 56, were around 620 miles east of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, when the yacht began taking on water last Thursday.

They told their base in Southampton they were diverting to the Azores, but contact was lost in the early hours of Friday morning.

His sister Kay Coombes, 46, said: 'We are grateful to the coastguards for what they have done so far, but it's stopped too soon. They are four strong-minded, physically strong sailors.'

She added: 'They knew they were in difficulties and had every opportunity to get into the life-raft, which would have had provisions for several days.'

Last night more than 70,000 people had signed an online petition calling on the US to resume the search, with Olympic sailing champion Sir Ben Ainslie backing the campaign on Twitter.

The Cheeki Rafiki had taken part in the Antigua Sailing Week regatta. A picture taken on the final day shows the four men relaxed and smiling, with Mr Male, of Southampton, clutching a trophy and a bottle of champagne.

The father of Mr Bridge, a highly experienced yacht skipper despite his young age, also appealed to the US coastguard yesterday.

David Bridge, 51, from Farnham in Surrey, said: 'Please keep looking. The longer they delay the less time there will be to find them.'

He said Foreign Office diplomats were trying to 'exert pressure' on US officials, but could do little else.

Cressida Goslin, 51, the wife of Mr Goslin, from West Camel, Somerset, told BBC Radio 4's World At One programme: 'There are four British people on that boat...  if we don't try to rescue them we are just going to leave them to starve to death.'

US officials yesterday said air crews had scoured an area of more than 4,000 square miles without finding any trace of the missing sailors.

US  and Canadian aircraft and merchant vessels looked for the crew  throughout Friday and Saturday but later called off the search.  Stormforce director Doug Innes said he was 'devastated' the search had  been stoppedOn Saturday, a cargo ship crew spotted the overturned hull of a boat matching the description of the Cheeki Rafiki, but saw no signs of the men or a life-raft.

Captain Anthony Popiel, of the US coastguard, said: 'Assuming best-case emergency equipment, the estimated survival time past the time of distress was approximately 20 hours. Crews searched for 53 hours.'

Simon Boxall, an oceanographer at the University of Southampton, admitted finding the men was unlikely.

He said the US coastguard is among the best in the world, and the search would not have been called off if officials 'genuinely thought there was hope'.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
