
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.

The email address you have entered is already in use.

Please re-enter the email address.

China Coast Guard vessels sail in the waters claimed by China and Vietnam in the South China Sea.

The answer is complicated. Some believe the answer is yes, while others argue that both sides are hedging to defend their respective interests and avoid open confrontation.

The U.S. has been unequivocal in stating that containment is not its goal. While in Asia last month, U.S. President Barack Obama declared, “We are not interested in containing China.” His comment was no surprise — to recognize containment as official U.S. strategy would trigger angry reactions from Beijing, reduce Chinese cooperation with the U.S. in crucial areas and inflame or create conflicts.

Beijing has reasons not to be convinced, though. The U.S. pivot to Asia, announced during Obama’s first term, clearly seeks to introduce breathing room to China’s economic dominance of the region. Most notably, the Obama administration has been hard at work to advance the Tran-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation trade agreement that excludes China but includes those friendly to America—most notably Japan, China’s archrival. The U.S. military also plans to shift forces to the Asia Pacific, and has announced plans to base 60% of U.S. naval forces in the Pacific by 2020.

Meanwhile last month, media reports indicated that the U.S. Pacific Command has prepared options for how to respond forcefully to future Chinese provocations over hotly disputed territory in maritime Asia. These options range from displays of B-2 bomber flights near China to aircraft carrier exercises near China’s coastal waters.

Additionally, the U.S. military is deploying Marines to Darwin, Australia; sending troops back to the Philippines; engaging in more robust military cooperation with Japan and developing closer ties with Vietnam.

Washington may deny that it is engaged in an effort to contain China, but Beijing views the U.S. pivot as precisely that.

At the same time, even as China denies any interest in threatening the U.S.-led world order, U.S. policymakers, experts and pundits increasingly describe China’s “peaceful rise” as bunk.

Less than a week after Obama completed his recent Asia tour, a Chinese state-owned oil conglomerate positioned a deepwater drilling rig in a part of the South China Sea claimed by both China and Vietnam. The deployment was accompanied by a flotilla of some 80 Chinese ships that, according to Vietnam, have rammed and fired water cannons at Vietnamese coast guard vessels.

China maintains that it has “indisputable sovereignty” over the islands of the South China Sea. Washington, for its part, has labeled the latest incident and other recent Chinese assertions of sovereignty as “provocative and unhelpful” and condemns any coercive means to settle territorial disputes.

Such Chinese acts only fuel the view that the country would not hesitate to use its growing power to bully its neighbors and challenge U.S. leadership in Asia. Even before the latest scuffle in the South China Sea, U.S. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham was already describing China’s behavior as “obscene,” accusing it of propping up North Korea, stealing U.S. intellectual property and launching numerous cyber-attacks against America.

In fact, both sides are actually hedging —planning for war and cooperating where they can–to avoid potential disastrous consequences.

After all, open confrontation benefits neither side. Robust Sino-American economic relations, with annual trade valued at about $500 billion, continue to serve as the best indicator of bilateral interdependence. Common interests exist elsewhere, too, including in the national security realm that is fraught with tension: When in Beijing in April, for example, U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel identified counter-piracy, humanitarian assistance, military medicine and maritime safety as areas in which the U.S. and Chinese militaries should cooperate. And the U.S. continues to actively seek help from China on reining in North Korea.

Indeed, the extent of current U.S.-China military cooperation may surprise many Americans. Retired Admiral Gary Roughead, former chief of naval operations, often points out that the U.S. Navy and the PLA Navy have been conducting daily counter-piracy operations as part of a multinational effort for almost five years in the Somali Basin off the east coast of Africa.

For now, the jury’s still out on just how peaceful China’s rise really will be.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
