
Members of China’s People’s Liberation Army hacked into the systems of Westinghouse Electric, Alcoa and other corporations, U.S. officials allege.

KEITH LANE/Reuters U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder (2nd L) announces the indictments of five Chinese nationals on cyber espionage charges for allegedly stealing trade secrets from American companies, during a news conference at the Justice Department.

WASHINGTON — The U.S. for the first time accused China of criminal cyber spying — saying the Chinese government ripped off trade secrets from major U.S. companies.

Sitting in a building in Shanghai, five members of the China's People's Liberation Army hacked into the systems of Westinghouse Electric Co., United States Steel Corp, Alcoa Inc. and the steelworkers union, according to the indictment.

The move was sure to increase diplomatic tensions between the U.S. and China, recently enflamed by revelations of U.S. spying by Edward Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor.

China has continually denied what appears to be mounting and incontrovertible evidence of cyber attacks on U.S. firms by the Chinese. On Monday, federal prosecutors drew a direct link between such hacking and the loss of jobs in the U.S.

"All around the country there has been a real and demonstrable loss of jobs in our communities," said David Hickton, the chief federal prosecutor in Pittsburgh, where the indictments were brought.

Gu Chunhui along with four other Chinese Army Officers are being sought by the FBI.

Wen Xinyu and four other Chinese Army officers are being sought by the FBI.

Sun Kailiang along with four other Chinese Army officers is being sought by the FBI after they have been charged with hacking into U.S. companies in the first cyber-espionage case of its kind.

He cited plants that had been shut or hit with large layoffs as a result of espionage that allowed Chinese competitors to flood the U.S. market with below-cost products, including steel pipe.

Hickton joined Attorney General Eric Holder and other Justice officials at a Washington press conference where they disclosed the names of the five Chinese while claiming the intent to haul them into a U.S. court of law.

How that unlikely scenario would happen is very unclear. Holder said he hoped to have cooperation from the Chinese government but if that is lacking, "there are a range of things we can do and we will employ all of them."

Holder and colleagues detailed some of the tactics used by the Chinese. He cited how SolarWorld lost substantial business to Chinese competitors as a result of stolen data on cost, pricing and strategy.

Similarly, at the same time Westinghouse was negotiating with the Chinese about construction of nuclear plants, Chinese hackers stole the very designs for those plants, he said.

"We must say enough is enough," said Holder.

"This is the new normal," said Robert Anderson, a top FBI official.

"This is what you're going to see on a recurring basis. If you're going to attack Americans, whether for criminal or national security purposes, we will hold you accountable, no matter what country you live in."

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
