
America's fraught trading relationship with China turned even more hostile on    Monday, after Washington filed an unprecedented lawsuit against Beijing for    corporate spying.

The US Department of Justice accused members of China’s military, the People’s    Liberation Army, of stealing sensitive information from major energy and    metal companies, including Alcoa, the aluminium producer, and Westinghouse,    which makes nuclear reactors.

America and China have both accused each other of corporate espionage many    times in the past, but this is the first time that the US has taken legal    action against Beijing, or named individual hackers.

Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group, told The Telegraph that America has    piled political pressure on China in the past, but that it was losing its    moral high ground in light of the recent NSA allegations.

"The reality is that the United States and China are actually engaged in    a war with each other on the cyber side, and that's not gotten any better.    The fact is, it's getting worse," he told The Telegraph."They've    been trying to bring this up in so many different ways and it was clear that    one of the mechanisms they were going to use was legally."

“It takes things a step further. The message is clear: we know who you are and    we know what you are doing,” said Nick Akerman, a specialist in cyber    espionage at the law firm Dorsey and Whitney.

The companies targeted tried to play down the severity of the issue, but    analysts predict that the legal row will heighten Western fears about doing    business with Chinese corporations.

It could also have far-reaching implications for global trade, said Professor    Ann Lee, author of What The US Can Learn From China.

"Doing it like this, rather than diplomatically, America is obviously    going to damage relations [with China]," she said. "It is    potentially looking to curtail trade, but I don't know where it gets them    because supply chains are so complex. It could really put the whole global    supply chain at a standstill. What you have is a bunch of people in    Washington not thinking things through. It could totally boomerang in    America's face."

According to the indictment, five hackers “stole trade secrets” which allowed    Chinese companies to undercut their American competitors, or gave them “insight into [their] strategy and vulnerabilities”.

In one instance, in 2008, a Chinese hacker called “Sun” sent a so-called “phishing” email to Alcoa, opening the door for the theft of “thousands” of    emails and documents from the aluminimum producer’s computers, including “internal discussions” concerning a partnership with a company controlled by    the Chinese state.

The indictment does not name the Chinese company, or detail the information    that was stolen, but it is understood to be Chinalco – a Chinese aluminium    business which joined forces with Alcoa in 2008 in order to buy a stake in    Rio Tinto, the mining giant. A year later, Chinalco tried to increase its    stake in Rio, but had its offer rejected. Shortly afterwards Chinese    authorities arrested and jailed Stern Hu, a Rio executive, on charges of    corruption.

In another instance, America accused Chinese solar panel manufacturers of    flooding the US market with products, Chinese hackers also allegedly stole    thousands of files from SolarWorld, a major American solar panel producer,    including information about its cash flow, manufacturing costs, and “privileged attorney-client communications relating to ongoing trade    litigation”. US Steel and United Steelworkers were also targeted by the    hackers.

However, the most worrying allegation for Britain is arguably the alleged    hacking of Westinghouse. According to the DoJ, Chinese spies targeted the    company in 2010 whilst it was building four AP1000 nuclear power plants and    negotiating deals with un-named Chinese state-owned companies.

Such a move raises questions over the security of Westinghouse and its other    projects, including the construction of three AP1000 reactors in Cumbria, as    part of a project run by NuGeneration.
