
As air quality becomes a top concern in China, century-old German family business Freudenberg is offering a helping hand to reduce carbon emissions in the auto industry.

One of the most important ways to cut emissions is to reduce friction among vehicle parts, said Chen Delin, a business manager for automotive industry sales at the NOK-Freudenberg Group China.

Chen said the company's seals equip about 80 percent of the country's vehicles to help reduce emissions.

"Our sealing technology unveils new potential for the automotive industry in China," he said.

He added that the company's latest achievement - a gas lubricated seal - can cut 90 percent of friction, which means a reduction of 0.5-1 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer.

Chen said the new technology was not yet in mas s production but that it had already attracted the attention of Chinese auto manufacturers due to the government's tougher regulations on emissions.

Another effective weapon against poor air quality in Freudenberg's product portfolio are its air filters.

Two of every three new cars that have air-infiltration devices in China use Freudenberg air filters, according to the company.

The filters, which cover engines' air intake, already help several Japanese and South Korean brands improve engine performance, said Xu Jia, sales director at Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens ( Suzhou ) Co Ltd.

Freudenberg also offers synthetic and eco-friendly specialty lubricants that make sure everything from door seals to brake systems and steering units run smoothly.

"For years now, demand for high-performance lubricants has been increasing as important key industries in China continue to grow," said Wang Shu, general manager at Freudenberg's subsidiary Klber Lubrication in Shanghai.

. All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.
