
Survey results are meant for general information only, and are not based on recognised statistical methods.

The Saskatchewan Teachers’ Federation (STF) and the Government-Trustee Bargaining Committee have reached a tentative collective bargaining agreement.

The pact includes a total compensation increase of 7.3 per cent over four years, as well as a $700 pro-rated payment in the first year. There will be funding for teachers in years three and four, in recognition of associated fees, upon the establishment of a new teacher regulatory and disciplinary body in Saskatchewan.

The agreement deals with articles that are required by legislation to be bargained provincially by the committee and the STF. A commitment has also been made to address other important matters that fall outside of the agreement and bargaining process, including issues such as student and teacher time, and developing a common understanding of the expectations put upon teachers.

The two sides had a tentative agreement last fall, but teachers voted 73 per cent against the deal.

NOTE: To post a comment in the new commenting system you must have an account with at least one of the following services: Disqus, Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo, OpenID. You may then login using your account credentials for that service. If you do not already have an account you may register a new profile with Disqus by first clicking the "Post as" button and then the link: "Don't have one? Register a new profile".

The Estevan Lifestyles welcomes your opinions and comments. We do not allow personal attacks, offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations. We reserve the right to edit comments for length, style, legality and taste and reproduce them in print, electronic or otherwise. For further information, please contact the editor or publisher, or see our Terms and Conditions.

Please Wait A Moment.

The email and/or password you have provided is not recognized. Please verify your entry and try again. To register please close this window and click "Register" on the top right of the site.
