
The United States government filed criminal charges against five Chinese military hackers on allegations that they committed economic espionage and other violations by hacking the computers and stealing the trade secrets of American companies in the nuclear power, metals and solar products industries.

The United States Department of Justice (DOJ) alleged that the five Chinese military hackers conspired to hack American entities and maintained unauthorized access to their computers to steal information that would be useful to competitors in China including state-owned enterprises (SOEs).

According to the agency, the accused military hackers stole trade secrets and sensitive, internal communications that provide competitors and/or adversaries in litigation with insights regarding the strategy and vulnerabilities of the American company.

In a statement, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said the economic espionage case against the Chinese military hackers is the “first ever charges against a state actor” for such a type of hacking. He emphasized that the U.S. government will not tolerate actions by any country that aims to sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free market.

The Department of Justice said the victims of the accused Chinese military hackers’ cyber espionage activities include Westinghouse Electric Company, U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG ( ETR:SWVK ) (FRA:SWVK), United States Steel Corporation ( NYSE:X ), Allegheny Technologies Incorporated ( NYSE:ATI ), and Alcoa Inc ( NYSE:AA ). The hackers also targeted the Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW).

The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the activities of the accused, which led to the filing of criminal charges against them. The DOJ’s National Security Division Counter-espionage Section and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Pennsylvania are prosecuting the case.

“China is a staunch defender of network security, and the Chinese government, military and associated personnel have never engaged in online theft of trade secrets,” according to the statement of the Chinese Foreign Ministry.

The Chinese military hackers facing criminal charges include Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui. The accused were officers in the Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).

"The ability to act on timely, high-quality information separates the successful investor from their peers. The ValueWalk Newsletter is one of the best sources of news and analysis from the business and investing community."
