
The plan would have brought 22 fighter planes to Switzerland for $3.5 billion.

BERN , Switzerland, May 19 (UPI) -- Swiss voters narrowly defeated the purchase of fighter jets for its military, and resoundingly rejected the world's highest minimum wage.

The plan to purchase 22 Gripen fighter jets, made in Sweden, for $3.5 billion saw 53.4 percent voting against it and 46.6 percent in favor. Defense Minister Ueli Maurer decried what he called "the void that will be created in our country in terms of aviation security."

Providing Switzerland with a minimum wage of 22 Swiss francs ($24.70) per hour -- supported by trade unions as a way of fighting poverty -- was rejected as well, with 76.percent of voters rejecting the idea and 23.7 percent voting in favor.

Switzerland, regarded by some indices as the world's highest prices and living costs, currently has no minimum wage, but the median hourly wage is about 33 francs ($37) per hour.

Opinion polls indicated most voters agreed with business leaders and industry councils, who argued the proposed high minimum wage would cost jobs and reduce competitiveness.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
