
'Papas Fritas' performs 'act of love' for students drowning in debt.

When elected officials don’t listen, sometimes people take matters into their own hands.

Last week, Chilean artist and activist Francisco “Papas Fritas” Tapia did just that.

Outside, as students at Santiago’s Universidad del Mar shed clothing during a takeover demanding free public education, Tapia hurried away with reams of student loan debt papers — or pagarés — for a performance art piece.

Even as the soon-to-be-defunct private university prepares to shut its doors at the close of 2014, the Universidad del Mar continues collecting on student loan debt.

In 2011, an average Chilean university student graduated with U.S. $45,000 in debt — among the world’s highest. As a comparison, the average U.S. college student graduated with $27,000 of debt for that year. Unsurprisingly, 2011 marked the beginning of widespread student protests throughout Chile’s institutions of higher education, most of which are privately owned and operated.

During the “March of all Marches” earlier this year, Chile’s students again protested the high cost of university education and paralyzing debt facing graduates, renewing their call for free university education for all.

According to research by Chilean economist Marcel Claude , student debt is close to 174 percent of Chilean students’ annual salary upon graduation.

President Bachelet’s father, a former general in Pinochet’s air force, died in custody after being arrested for opposing the 1973 coup that brought Chile’s contentious dictator to power.

Understand Spanish? You can watch the video of Tapia explaining his actions here.

Soo Na Pak is a writer and artist currently based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She is a former Fulbright grantee, and completed studies at Hampshire College. Essays and prose have appeared in TheRumpus.net, "Outsiders Within: Writing on Transracial Adoption" (South End Press), Hamilton Stone Review, and Digital Artifact Magazine. Visit her blog at soonapak.wordpress.com .

Join the Human Rights Campaign if you believe that everyone has the right to marry the person they love.
