
Here's a look at how other nations' hourly rates stack up against each other.

Voters in Switzerland overwhelmingly struck down a proposal to set the country’s minimum wage at what would have been the highest in the world at about $25 an hour, or 22 Swiss francs.

In the same day that 76 percent of voters opposed the wage referendum, slightly more than half also rejected a request to purchase 22 new fighter jets for the Swiss Air Force.

This would have been Switzerland’s first federally mandated minimum wage. Other countries without minimum wages include Denmark, Germany, Italy, Norway and Sweden, all where there is more collective bargaining between employers and workers to establish pay.

"In Northern Europe, social partners are reluctant to the introduction of a minimum wage because they want to keep control of wage setting," Stéphane Carcillo, an economist at the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, said in an email.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel last month approved that country’s first minimum wage to start in 2015 at the equivalent of $11.75 an hour.

The chart below shows the hourly minimum wage in 20 OECD countries, in U.S. dollars and adjusted for spending power. Carcillo said it's difficult to say what exactly Switzerland's 22 francs would look like adjusted for spending power, but Bloomberg reports it'd be about $14.01 an hour.

Carcillo said a number of factors play into why a country elects to have a high minimum wage, including where it gets its revenue. In France, the minimum rate affects about 11 to 12 percent of the workforce, he said, while in Australia it's about half of that.

"Some countries have revenue stemming from natural resources [Australia, Netherlands] while others do not [France, Belgium]," Carcillo said.

President Barack Obama and congressional Democrats have proposed an increase to the current federal minimum wage to $10.10 per hour, up from its current $7.25. A February Congressional Budget Office report stated that as a result of the increase, low-wage workers would receive higher pay that would increase their family’s income and for some, incomes would rise above the poverty line.

“But some jobs for low-wage workers would probably be eliminated, the income of most workers who became jobless would fall substantially and the share of low-wage workers who were employed would probably fall slightly,” the report said.

This graphic shows the labor costs for employers at the minimum wage in U.S. dollars at the current exchange rate, and includes social security contributions.

Even if you detested stats class, data can be way more compelling than you realize. On Data Mine, we make the numbers in the news make sense.

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
