
NEW DELHI: While India has been busy with parliamentary elections, China has been pushing its territorial claims in the South China Sea, making moves that could have serious implications for Indian security. In fact, as Narendra Modi prepares to take office, China could become an early challenge for his government to grapple with.

Almost 4000 Chinese expatriates are preparing to get airlifted out of Vietnam after protests erupted against Chinese interests in the wake of Beijing planting an oil rig in Vietnam's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) in the disputed South China Sea. China has sent scores of civil and military vessels to protect the oil rig, leading to a face-off with Vietnamese vessels protecting their territorial waters.

Vietnam says two of the PLA Navy's biggest amphibious landing ships and a missile frigate are guarding the $1 billion HSY981 mobile rig. On Sunday, China declared it would continue to prospect for oil in those waters, standing its ground, despite the evident escalation of hostilities.

The Chinese Communist Party's newspaper, Global Times, supported the use of "non-peaceful" measures against Vietnam and the Philippines on Friday, raising the possibility of armed conflict. "The  South China Sea disputes should be settled in a peaceful manner, but that doesn't mean China can't resort to non-peaceful measures in the face of provocation from Vietnam and the Philippines," the newspaper, which often takes a nationalistic tone, wrote in an editorial. "Many people believe that a forced war would convince some countries of China's sincerely peaceful intentions," the paper said.

Apart from the inherent danger of the stand-off, China's actions have agitated the Philippines which has already dragged Beijing to UNCLOS for arbitration, after China reportedly violated its sovereignty on Scarborough Shoal. The Philippines last week released pictures showing China having erected structures on Johnson Reef in Spratly Islands in South China Sea. The Paracel Islands are now almost completely occupied by China.

India has commercial interests in South China Sea, off Vietnam, and could become an "interested" party if tensions worsen. But it has deeper concerns. China is evidently confident enough to push the envelope on territorial claims in Southeast Asia. The ASEAN, despite calling for a code of conduct, is disunited enough to not yet present a united front to China's expansionism. And China has calculated, rightly, that the US is distracted with Ukraine, Iran nuclear deal and the withdrawal from Afghanistan to want to open up a new front. China could also be gambling on a perception of the US in strategic retreat.

India has invested much in Vietnam, trying to build it as a strategic ally, a bulwark against an expansionist China. Vietnam has been growing economically in the past few years. A conflict with China could push it backwards, which would not be in India's interest.

Besides, China's actions are small enough to not invite military retaliation but large enough to scare away smaller Asian neighbours. Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei and even Taiwan are claimants to the disputed islands in South China Sea.
