
You have viewed free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  Receive FREE access by logging in to or creating your Spokesman.com account.

Log In to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.

Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.

GENEVA – Swiss voters overwhelmingly rejected a referendum proposal Sunday to create the world’s highest minimum wage, according to Swiss TV projections.

You have viewed 20 free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  FREE registration is now required for uninterrupted access.

log in to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.

Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which adjusts figures for spending power, lists the highest current minimum wage as Luxembourg’s at $10.66 an hour, followed by France at $10.60, Australia at $10.21, Belgium at $9.97, and the Netherlands at $9.48. The U.S. wage, an adjusted $7.11 down from the actual $7.25 rate, came tenth on the list.

GENEVA – Swiss voters overwhelmingly rejected a referendum proposal Sunday to create the world’s highest minimum wage, according to Swiss TV projections.

The idea of creating the world’s highest minimum wage of 22 Swiss francs ($24.70) per hour was criticized by government and business leaders as likely to drive Switzerland’s high costs even higher. Trade unions backed it as a way of fighting poverty in a country that, by some measures, features the world’s highest prices and most expensive cities. But opinion polls indicated that most voters sided with government and business leaders, who argued it would cost jobs and erode economic competitiveness.

Switzerland currently has no minimum wage, but the median hourly wage is about 33 francs ($37) an hour.

Adjusted for its high prices, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Switzerland’s wage proposal would have represented about $14 an hour based on a 42-hour work week.
