
Swiss voters have rejected the country's planned purchase of 22 Saab Gripen E fighter aircraft in a landmark referendum on 18 May.

In a major blow to Saab, the country voted 53.4% against the proposed CHF3.126 billion (USD3.45 billion) purchase of the Gripen E to replace the country's ageing Northrop F-5 Tiger II fighter aircraft. Within a total turnout of 55.3%, 1.542 million Swiss voted against the purchase, with 1.344 million in favour.

The Gripen E had been selected by Switzerland in November 2011 to replace the F-5s, and had gone through a lengthy process of parliamentary approval prior to the public referendum.

The rejection now poses major questions for the Swiss Federal Department of Defence Civil Protection and Sport (VBS). In April the VBS stated it had no 'plan B' should the referendum go against the purchase of the Gripen.

The 54-strong Tiger II fleet has been in Swiss service since 1978 and is scheduled to be withdrawn from service in 2016. Meanwhile, the other element of the Swiss Air Force's combat fleet, its 32 Boeing F/A-18C/D Hornets, is itself currently scheduled to be withdrawn from service in 2025. With the purchase of the Gripen now rejected, the VBS urgently needs to identify a solution to maintain the country's air policing capabilities.

Speaking following the referendum result, Swiss Defence Minister Ueli Maurer stated that: "This decision has the effect of creating security gaps. We will make every effort to address these gaps in time in this difficult context. During the coming months, we must consider different options to find the best solution of readiness of the army."

A short-term solution could involve upgrading and refurbishing the country's existing Tiger II fleet, which could be maintained in service until at least 2020 should the need arise. Equally, a service life extension for the Hornet fleet will likely now be considered.

Other options include relaunching the original Tiger replacement programme, in which the Eurofighter Typhoon and Dassault Rafale had also competed. Alternatively, with the purchase of Gripens now ruled out, Switzerland could lease a fleet of the aircraft, as the Czech Republic and Hungary do.

Referendums can be called on any issue in Switzerland providing a public petition can gather enough signatures, and the cost of the programme and the choice of the Gripen sparked sufficient controversy to generate this.

The campaign against the Gripen purchase was largely led by the left wing of Swiss politics. The Swiss Green Party and Liberal Green Party, in particular, argued that it was too expensive and not needed. Although an element in Swiss politics sees no need for long-neutral Switzerland to maintain any armed forces, many of the purchase's opponents suggested the country no longer required a fleet of 50-70 fighters and that keeping the Hornet in service would suffice.

The selection of the Gripen itself also caused controversy more widely across the political spectrum over concerns that the procurement process had been conducted incorrectly and that the Gripen was an inferior choice to either the Rafale or Eurofighter.

These views were fuelled by the leak of Swiss Air Force's own final operational test and evaluation (OT&E) report from 2009 on the programme, which recommended that the Rafale be purchased, and noted poorer performance of the Gripen on some technical parameters.

However, the OT&E report focused purely on technical performance, without considering aspects such as operational reliability or offset value. Later parliamentary scrutiny confirmed that the programme had been managed correctly and backed the selection of the Gripen.

The referendum result is undoubtedly a significant blow for Saab. The Swedish company had won out in a hotly contested competition to be selected for the Swiss requirement, engaged heavily in working with local Swiss industry and providing offset value, and endured a lengthy parliamentary scrutiny process - before losing out at the final hurdle through an almost unprecedented public plebiscite on a defence procurement programme.

Additionally, the company had been gaining genuine momentum for its Gripen aircraft. Sweden committed in January 2013 to purchasing 60 Gripen Es (expected to rise to 70 aircraft under newly disclosed plans), Brazil opted to purchase 36 Gripen NGs in December 2013, and the Czech Republic signed a new 12-year leasing arrangement for its 14 Gripen C/D aircraft on 16 May.

The aircraft has also been purchased by South Africa and Thailand, alongside the UK Empire Test Pilot School.

For its part, Saab stated that, despite Switzerland now pulling out, "the Gripen E programme continues according to plan, with development and production of 60 Gripen E for Sweden ongoing and deliveries scheduled for 2018."

The company's hopes for the Gripen will now rest on trying to secure a contract for the planned Brazilian purchase, and on a possible leasing arrangement for the Slovak Air Force.
