
Naperville CARES, a local organization that provides emergency financial support and resources for local families in financial crisis, will benefit from the free will offering taken at the next First at Two Concert at First Congregational Church in Naperville on Sunday, June 15.  Mezzo-soprano Denise Gamez and soprano Carolyn Hart will perform in this concert that will begin, as the title of the concert series suggests, at 2 p.m.  Their program will feature classical pieces with show tunes and standards in the mix.

Gamez was twice a member of the Merola Opera Program at the San Francisco Opera Center where she received the Gropper Memorial Award.  She has performed with numerous orchestras, including the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra and the Toledo Symphony Orchestra.  Her concert repertoire has included the Verdi Requiem, Mendelssohn's Elijah with Sherrill Milnes conducting, Beethoven's Missa Solemnis with the Columbus (Indiana) Philharmonic, and Bach's Mass in B Minor with the National Symphony Orchestra of Costa Rica, among others.  She was also the mezzo soloist in the premiere performance of Children of God by the young American composer Daniel Kellogg, commissioned by Soli Deo Gloria.  She is currently Special Guest Instructor in Voice at the Wheaton College Conservatory of Music.

Hart performs regularly in the Chicago area and has toured extensively throughout Canada and Great Britain.  Further concerts have taken her to Hong Kong, Korea and most recently to New York and Paris.  She especially enjoys the collaboration of chamber music and performs with a variety of instrumental ensembles.  A recently produced CD features Hart in newly commissioned Canadian works for soprano, clarinet and piano; in another, she celebrates Canadian art songs.  She has been frequently broadcast on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation radio and television, as well as on WFMT (Chicago), KPAC (Texas Public Radio), and Korean National Radio.  She teaches at Wheaton College, where she serves as Associate Professor and Chair of Voice.

Horn, who has performed in live broadcasts over WFMT-FM on its Pianoforte Foundation Fazioli Salon Series and 2010 Beethoven Piano Sonata series, is an avid chamber musician who regularly collaborates with members of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.  He has performed with the Ying String Quartet, the Rembrandt Chamber Players, and Guarneri Quartet violinist John Dalley.   He is Professor of Piano and Chair of Keyboard Studies at Wheaton's Conservatory.

The popular First at Two Concert series at First Congregational began this year in February with a concert featuring organist Sue Flaatten and pianist Valerie Lorimer.   A third concert scheduled for October will feature concert pianist Sandra Carey.
