
The Patrouille Suisse aerobatic display team's participation at the ILA Berlin Airshow on 20-25 May will be viewed with enhanced interest after Switzerland's rejection of a Gripen procurement plan on the eve of the event.

With the Northrop F-5E Tiger II aircraft of the Patrouille Suisse drilling holes in the sky above the Berlin ExpoCenter Airport throughout the week of ILA, industry, government, and media observers will be reflecting on the implications of a Swiss referendum vote against the Gripen Fund Law, which would have phased out the F-5s from 2018.

The referendum is the latest turn in an emotive and protracted procurement process, which started in 2007, to partially replace the Swiss Air Force's F-5E/F fighter fleet. At that time Saab offered its Gripen C/D to compete against the Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornet (which dropped out in 2008 due to a mismatch between the requirements and the aircraft's capabilities), Dassault Rafale, and Eurofighter Typhoon.

In 2009, Saab opened up its offer to include the developmental Gripen NG (later to become Gripen E) alongside the Gripen C/D. However, the competition stalled in 2010, only to be restarted in mid-2011 following intense lobbying by Swiss industry, eager for the 100% offset package worth some CHF2.2 billion (USD2.5 billion).

In December 2011 the Swiss government finally selected the Gripen E to fulfil its fighter replacement requirement, stating it wanted 22 such aircraft to be delivered from 2018 through to 2021 (in addition, an interim solution of eight Gripen C and three Gripen D aircraft were to be delivered in 2016).

Despite Switzerland's strong commitment to defence (as demonstrated by a nearly 70% vote to retain conscription in a recent referendum), the Gripen procurement has been dogged by controversy and a determined opposition almost since the decision was announced. A petition calling for a review of the procurement was signed by more than 50,000 citizens, forcing the referendum vote.

Since the referendum was called, Saab officials have complained of facing a concerted and determined attempt to spin the facts of the deal to scupper the procurement with a 'no' vote.

Speaking to reporters ahead of the referendum in March, Saab's Swiss campaign leader for the Gripen E, Richard Smith, said confidential reports had been leaked, and other 'dirty' tricks employed to gain negative votes.

"A critical Swiss Air Force evaluation report that was leaked in February 2012 certainly didn't help. The problem was that the aircraft in the report was a Gripen [at] MS 18 [standard]. The interim Gripen C aircraft will be MS 20, and the Gripen Es will be MS 21. The media started to make mixed-up comparisons. The report had 98 improvement points, some of which were very minor and a lot of which were resolved in MS 19 and implemented in MS 20. The remaining 46% would be included in MS 21," he said.

Not long after this leak, a Saab analysis of probable parliamentary voting intentions on the Gripen was also leaked to the Swiss media with a negative spin, he added.

Despite this 'drip-drip' of unfavourable publicity, the Swiss parliament backed the Gripen procurement by 113 to 68 votes. The vote on raising the spending ceiling to commit to CHF3.126 billion as the total value of the contract was passed by 114 to 70 votes. Also, the Gripen Fund Law (the subject of the national referendum) was passed with a 118 to 67 vote majority.

Even so, the referendum vote to reject to reject the Gripen Fund Law puts the brakes on the Swiss procurement for now. While the Swiss government could press on, this would be politically inexpedient, so it must effectively restart the entire procurement process from scratch.

For the Gripen E, the outcome is far less severe. Company officials say the programme will continue without Switzerland. The Swedish Air Force has already signed up for 60 (possibly rising to 70) aircraft, and Brazil is onboard as an export partner with 36 aircraft, so the overall development programme is unaffected by the Swiss vote, unwelcome as it is for Saab.
