
Two years after coordinated attacks terrorized Nigeria's second largest city, a cautious peace had returned. Until Sunday night, that is.

At least 118 people were killed in the twin blasts, the National Emergency Management Agency said .

KANO, Nigeria — Two years after Boko Haram brought terror to these dusty streets, a cautious peace had returned.

Excited young men honked and cheered as they weaved through Kano city’s Sabon Gari area in motorized rickshaws, hyping a candidate for local elections.

Nearby, a hawker sold books on Western business acumen to motorists stuck in heavy traffic. Friends met for ice cream at a new shopping mall down the road.

On Sunday night, that fragile peace was threatened when a suicide bomber attacked a busy road of taverns in the mainly Christian area of Sabon Gari — “strangers’ quarters,” in the Hausa language.

Sources told GlobalPost that at least four people were killed . The full details were still emerging Sunday evening.

Some 185 people were killed when various government offices in Kano were bombed, and in the aftermath when militants drove around the city shooting pedestrians at random and battling police.

Terrified by the violence, many traders stopped coming to Kano and residents upped and left. The streets of this city of 4 million-plus people grew strangely quiet.

But two years on, life had started coming back to the city, thanks to a two-pronged approach by the state government. Sunday morning before the blasts it had been business as usual for Kano, Nigeria’s second-largest city and ancient commercial capital of the country’s much-maligned northern region.

All around Kano state security forces including police and army are prominent at guard posts and checkpoints. Military forces and grassroots neighborhood watch groups have come out to help keep their streets safe.

And with an eye to long-term security, Kano’s state government has expanded educational and training opportunities for youth who might otherwise be jobless and vulnerable to recruitment by extremists.

Umar Aliyu, 18, said Kano was once again attracting ambitious young job-seekers, and those who fled after the 2012 attacks are returning to the city. Aliyu himself is headed to Switzerland for university, but intended to look for a job in Kano after graduation.

“They’re coming back home because it’s safer here. They see opportunity here,” he explained.

A major initiative has been a ban on the “Almajiri” system, an old tradition in which rural families in northern Nigeria send their young sons to Koran schools in the cities. These boys — an estimated 1.2 million of them in Kano state alone — survive by begging on the streets, and are vulnerable to radicalization and to being exploited by Boko Haram.

“It's not an issue of just bringing police and soldiers with guns and tear gas,” Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, governor of Kano state, told GlobalPost in an interview.

The police and military are aided by unarmed groups of community members who provide valuable on-the-ground intelligence and tips.

One of them is a privately-funded neighborhood watch organization somewhat confusingly known here as the “vigilantes.” There are more than 35,000 members of this group in Kano state, who are armed with small knives, sticks and slingshots, and provide information to state security authorities.

“We are indigenes of where we live, so we give information. So they can know where Boko Haram are living and strike there,” said Mohammad Alhaji, state commander of the vigilantes.

Another group is called Hisbah, which has 9,000 officers and describes itself as assisting the police and “encouraging morality” — a sort of Islamic vice squad, clamping down on prostitution, drugs and other crimes.

Hisbah’s director general in Kano state, Abba Saidu Sufi, said this also includes reporting on anyone exhibiting extreme ideologies at mosques.

“We know their ideology. We can identify them by their ideology,” Sufi said.

Mele Kyari, 49, a manager of a new Islamic education and cultural center in Abuja, said that in northeastern Nigeria — where Boko Haram has caused the most damage — the root of the problem isn’t being dealt with.

Kyari, a geologist originally from Maiduguri, capital of Borno state in the northeast, said it is the economic disparity, deprivation and extreme poverty that fuels Boko Haram.

A problem for soldiers fighting Boko Haram in Borno state — which includes the town of Chibok — is that they generally aren’t from the area and can’t identify the extremists.

“They haven’t done much to win the trust of the local community,” Kyari said.

In Kano, residents have grown more suspicious about outsiders and cautious about their neighbors.

Father Gabriel Ikor, a priest at Our Lady of Fatima Cathedral in the Sabon Gari area, said that because of Boko Haram there is a lingering nervousness in the city.

The Cathedral’s sprawling grounds are surrounded by a cement wall topped with razor wire, and a secondary metal fence. Visitors are searched, and strangers are closely questioned.
