
(New York, May 19, 2014) – Fifty-eight countries issued a statement and letter on May 19, 2014, calling on the United Nations Security Council to adopt a French-proposed resolution to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court (ICC). The countries also urged other UN members to officially endorse the resolution.

On May 12, France circulated a Security Council resolution that would give the ICC a mandate over crimes against humanity and war crimes committed in Syria. The war in Syria has been characterized by impunity for abuses by all parties to the conflict. The resolution was opened for co-sponsorship to the wider UN membership on May 15. The Security Council is set to vote on the resolution on May 22.

On May 15, over 100 nongovernmental organizations from around the world issued a statement urging the Security Council to approve the French-proposed resolution.

A broad majority of the 15 Security Council members have publicly backed a role for the ICC in Syria: France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Luxembourg, Argentina, Australia, South Korea, Chile, Lithuania, and Nigeria. To be adopted, a Security Council resolution requires nine affirmative votes, but any of the five permanent members have veto power. Russia, one of the five, expressed objections to such a measure on January 15, 2013, describing efforts to seek a referral as “ill-timed and counterproductive.” The Russian UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, told the media in two recent statements that Russia’s position had not changed and that the bid to involve the court was not a “good idea.” China, another permanent member, has publicly remained silent on the issue.

Security Council members and other countries that have repeatedly expressed concern over abuses in Syria should co-sponsor the resolution as an expression of support for justice for grave crimes, Human Rights Watch said. They should also press Russia and China not to veto a resolution on accountability for violations by all sides.

The UN high commissioner for human rights has on multiple occasions recommended a Security Council referral to the ICC, most recently during a briefing with the Security Council on April 8.

Syria is not a party to the Rome Statute, the treaty establishing the ICC. As a result, the ICC can only obtain jurisdiction over crimes there if the Security Council refers the situation in Syria to the court, or Syria voluntarily accepts ICC jurisdiction. A referral would give the ICC jurisdiction to investigate serious violations of international law by all sides to the Syria conflict. The Security Council has made similar referrals twice previously, for the Darfur region of Sudan in 2005 and for Libya in 2011. In both cases, no permanent member used its veto power to block the resolutions.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
