
The United States may have just upped the ante for the U.S. Cyber Command, with the Justice Department’s announcement that it has charged five Chinese military officials with cyber espionage.

The indictments — the first time that the US has filed formal accusations over cyber espionage against a foreign country — are seen as likely to escalate tensions between the two countries and bring a sharper focus to the cyber domain, where the Cyber Command and its component commands in the military services conduct offensive and defensive operations.

The United States is charging the Chinese officials with conspiring to gain unauthorized access to the computer systems of six companies to steal information useful to Chinese state-owned enterprises and competitors. Trade secrets and sensitive internal communications were stolen from the companies.

The companies allegedly hacked by the Chinese military include nuclear power, metals, and solar product companies — Alcoa World Alumina, Westinghouse Electric Co., Allegheny Technologies, US Steel Corp., United Steelworkers Union, and SolarWorld.

The defendants include five officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, which is the signals intelligence arm of China’s military –it is often described as the Chinese equivalent of the National Security Agency.  Organizations above the platoon level under the PLA use a Military Unit Cover Designator when describing units, rarely using the true unit designators within the public realm and in press releases.

Why go to all the trouble to "deal with it", when you can just Lie, Cheat, and Steal your way around the issue. This became our Modus operandi in 1947 and look where it has gotten us, are we not all proud of our accomplishments? The first thing I learned in the P-P was too get to the bottom of an issue, you must follow the money trail and identify the winners and losers, then you will know who is driving the issue.

Pot, let me introduce you to Kettle. Kettle, meet Pot.  Seriously, what do we expect to gain from this? Are they going to stop? No. Are we going to stop? No. We accuse their manufacturers of installing back doors in their equipment and then we go and do the same thing to our our companies. Problem with doors is they tend to work both ways. Now that they know about them, and I don't doubt they knew about them long before the general public did, they can exploit those openings as well as we can. We whine about them having a clandestine cyber unit while we boldly announce the Cyber Command. Hypocrisy much?  Quit this noise and hunker down for the long fight. That's the reality. Deal with it.

Please post your comments here. Comments are moderated, so they may not appear immediately after submitting. We will not post comments that we consider abusive or off-topic.
