
The Chinese government says it will suspend some of its plans for bilateral exchanges with Vietnam.

The move comes in response to the deadly violence against Chinese nationals in the country.

CRI's Ding Lulu has more.

Reporter: The announcement is from Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei, commenting on possible repercussions stemming from the violence in Vietnam.

So far at least two Chinese nationals in Vietnam have died and more than 100 others have been injured.

Along with the bloodshed, Hong says property has also been damaged, and the climate for proper bilateral cooperation and communications has been sabotaged.

He adds that China will also consider taking further measures according to the situation's development.

China has also lifted the level of the security warning for Chinese tourists in Vietnam, warning its citizens not to travel to the country.

Some major Chinese travel agencies have also suspended their Vietnam tour services.

Meanwhile, five ships have been dispatched to Vietnam to evacuate Chinese nationals caught in the deadly anti-China violence.

The vessels set off from a port in Haikou, China's southmost province of Hainan.

Zhang Jie is Hainan's deputy director of Maritime Safety Administration.

"We have sent captains who are capable of performing this kind of work. Sea charts have been updated. The ships are new and we have completed inspections."

Also on Sunday several hundreds of Chinese nationals have been taken back by charted flights arranged by the Chinese government.

16 critically injured people are now receiving medical treatment.

China's foreign ministry says more than three-thousand Chinese nationals have already been evacuated from Vietnam.

The Vietnamese government has expressed its regret over the violence and ordered an end to the anti-foreign protests.

The deadly attacks against Chinese personnel and companies in Vietnam come after China frustrated a series of provocative moves by Hanoi to disrupt the work of a Chinese oil rig in the South China Sea.

For CRI, this is Ding Lulu.

CRIENGLISH.com claims the copyright of all material and information produced        originally by our staff.
