
Private member’s bills don’t usually make it through the Canadian Parliament, and Bill C-571 to amend the federal Meat Inspection Act and the Safe Food for Canadians Act to limit horse slaughter for human consumption has come up short.

British Columbia Member of Parliament Alex Atamanenko saw his private member’s bill fail to pass May 14 in a 155-102 vote that pretty much kills it dead in Canada’s legislative process.

The bill had gained some attention in the United States because it would have banned the importing or exporting of horses to Canada, where the ultimate purpose is equine slaughter for human consumption.

Horses raised specifically for human consumption and having detailed medical records would have escaped the limitations in the MP’s bill.

Pierre Lemieux, Parliamentary Secretary to the Canadian Minister of Agriculture, helped whip up the governing Conservative Party’s opposition to the bill.

Although Atamanenko, a member of the New Democratic Party, also had support from the Liberal Party, it was not enough to overcome the governing Conservatives.

Since legal horse slaughter ended in the U.S. in 2007, thousands of horses are annually moved across the Mexican and Canadian borders for slaughter to meet the world demand for horsemeat, mostly in Asia and Europe.

Lemieux is wrong again.  He’s also stated that the horse meat industry in Canada is worth 120+ million while AG. Canada itself says it’s worth about $70 million.  Of course Conservative MP Bruce Stanton believes that it’s worth $2 billion.  Goes to show that the conservatives will whip up  votes by making up numbers and denying scientific evidence.  Why should we be surprised at this when Canada defunds its scientists and destroys valuable libraries.

This is an interesting statement made by an intelligent and reasonable man, Alex Atamenenko who proposed limiting the slaughter of horses for human consumption to those who are SPECIFICALLY bred and maintained as food.  Why this bill did not pass with resounding support is beyond the belief of all Americans, whose horses make up the bulk of the Canadian horsemeat supply to the world.   Americans do not want their horses slaughtered – that fact being beside the point apparently.  But more to the point, our horses, as you know, are not regulated and we administer whatever drug is necessary for the comfort and recovery of their health.

Please review the link above and for further information, check the website of American anti-slaughter, Equine Welfare Alliance, for more scientific research and position documents.  Americans are fighting to pass HR1094 and S541 which are stuck in committee for over a year now.  Thank you.

Here is a summary of the pertinent facts. Bill c – 571 absolutely is a human health and food safety issue. Unlike other animals that are raised for food, most horses are not, which allows them to be given drugs never intended to be used in animals destined for human consumption. Indeed, no other animal group that has been given some of the drugs routinely used in horses is allowed in the food chain. The horse meat industry, backed by the corrupt Canadian Food Inspection Agency, is allowed by the current government to ignore the law and thumb their noses at human health and food safety. Some horse drugs are so dangerous that horses that have even just received one dose at any time in their lives, are BY LAW never to enter the human food supply.The best known of these is phenylbutazone ( aka bute, butazolidin ). Not only is bute a carcinogen, but it is also nephrotoxic, cardiotoxic, hepatotoxic, ulcerogenic, and bone marrow toxic. The bone marrow toxicity alone has been linked to thousands of human deaths. The danger from allowing buted horses into the food chain was underscored just last year with the European horse meat scandal, when the world’s best experts reaffirmed what has been known medically for years: IT IS NOT POSSIBLE TO ESTABLISH A SAFE LOWER LIMIT FOR BUTE. So great was the concern about bute, that residue testing is not felt to provide sufficient safety and that is why they made a blanket statement saying that any horse that has received bute must not be slaughtered for human consumption.  That the CFIA is allowed tp pretend that horses do not receive toxic drugs, and is allowed to ignore the science, is scandalous.

When I found out that big cats in US Zoos were coming down with liver cancer and were being fed meat from slaughtered race horses I started looking into whether  it was legal to slaughter them for zoos in the US,  I can’t find anything that states it is illegal so I would think that the US zoos are buying the meat locally or having it shipped in from Canada or Mexico.  I started looking for information on the number of liver cancer cases  in Canada because of the meat being sold in Quebec which would give anyone easy access to the meat.  One article stated that in 8 years the number of liver cancer cases had jumped up 30% which was considered a alarming rise.  Liver cancer may be one of the diseases that could be linked to Bute or any number of the Vet drugs that horses in both the US and Canada are given.  Racehorses in Canada are sent to slaughter just like they are in the US.  I’m not in the medical field but someone that is should check with doctors in Canada to find out more about this upswing in the same type of cancers that is killing big cats in US Zoos and also check the big cat deaths in zoos in Canada. What is needed is for doctors in Canada to start asking if their patients if they  eat horse meat weekly or at all.
