
HANOI – After a week of violent anti-Chinese protests throughout the country, Vietnam’s government appears to finally be getting serious about cracking down on the protesters and restoring order to the country.

Over a thousand Vietnamese people have been arrested in relation to the violence, and the government has said that more will be arrested in the coming days.

The protests, which had been raging last week, were sparked mainly by the provocative move by China of locating a large oil rig in disputed waters off of Vietnam’s coast.

The initial protests, which were made up of thousands of Vietnamese, seemed to have the tacit approval, if not outright support, of the government of Vietnam.  Local workers rampaged through Chinese, Taiwanese and South Korean owned factories, in many cases burning and looting the buildings.

However, a planned anti-China protest that was to occur on Sunday outside of the Chinese embassy here in Hanoi was broken up by security forces before it could even begin.  Similar attempted protests across the country met with equally strong reactions.  Thousands of police were on the streets of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City in order to prevent any further outbreaks of unrest.

In addition, a number of online news sources and social media, such as Facebook, were blocked or otherwise censored by the government.

China’s reaction to the protests and violence has been growing in its intensity.  The country has announced plans to evacuate 3,000 Chinese nationals by boat from Vietnam.  Hundreds more Chinese have already left Vietnam by air or have crossed by land into neighboring countries such as Cambodia.

Beijing has also warned other Chinese to avoid traveling to Vietnam.  Additionally, China will put on hold a number of planned bilateral exchanges between the two countries.

Lt. Gen. Hoang Kong Tu, Vietnam’s top security official has publicly vowed to protect all foreign investments and citizens within the country.

Minister of Planning and Investment Bui Quang Vinh has stated that Vietnam is committed to protecting foreign investors.  The minister also pushed for stronger actions to be taken in order to allow for the resumption of normal business activities in industrial parks throughout the country.

In a meeting with foreign businesses, HCMC Chairman Le Hoang Quan sought to reassure foreign investors by stating that “We regret the incidents in recent days which were caused by some extremists who violated the law, affecting Vietnam’s image in the eyes of foreign investors. These were just spontaneous acts of some bad people. In nature, Vietnamese people are very respectful and friendly to foreigners.” He added that the city’s authorities had been tasked with ensuring the safety of foreigners.

Chairman Quan also committed the government to assisting companies that had suffered damages and economic losses as a result of the protests, as well as saying that the government would help rebuild the damaged buildings and offer tax relief.

The Vietnam General Confederation of Labor has also condemned the recent violence and has pledged to help support foreign workers and businesses in the country.

In recent years, Vietnam has been an increasingly attractive destination for foreign companies who are drawn by the country’s low wages and stable government. Hanoi is eager to see this trend continue and that its reputation not be further damaged from these events and that foreign investors continue to flock to the nation.

Stay up to date with the latest business and investment trends in Asia by  subscribing to our complimentary update service  featuring news, commentary and regulatory insight.
