
The rise of China's middle class means it is time to switch out of investing in high-end luxury companies in favour of "luxury-lite" firms such as BMW and Apple, said Jim O'Neill, the renowned economist and former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.

O'Neill's concept of luxury-lite focuses on companies that will sell to China's middle class, which will grow by 500 million to 600 million people over the next several decades according to Goldman, rather than high-end luxury companies where the Chinese market is already becoming saturated.

"You have to be short luxury and commodities, and long luxury-lite," O'Neill told the SALT hedge fund conference in Las Vegas on Friday, citing the recent "blow-away" sales to China reported by Apple and BMW.

"You need [to own] proper consumption stuff – you have to be short old China, long the new China."

O'Neill and other participants at the SALT conference in Las Vegas, which concluded on Friday, were divided about the fate of the world's fastest growing and arguably most important economy.

"People from the West cannot mentally accept that a place like China can work," O'Neill said, defending China's growth prospects.

Among the most prominent of the China bears is Jim Chanos of Kynikos Associates, who said the "Chinese economic model is broken" as the country increasingly relies on credit to fuel its growth.

"Too much credit is being used to drive GDP through real estate," said Chanos, who believed the evidence of rising risks existed outside the main centres of Beijing and Shanghai.

"It's not until you go to the third and fourth tier cities you see the magnitude of construction, and what a giant construction site is China," said Chanos, who sent a team of analysts on site visits to China.

Jin Liqun, the chairman of China Investment Corporation, said China will not suffer a mortgage crisis similar to the US because the banks are more conservative, only providing funds to those with steady jobs who can afford a 60 per cent down-payment.

"People may lose their savings, but [the system] will not have significant issues. The bubble will burst in the pockets of the home owner and will not hurt the financial system," said Liqun.

Jose Luis Daza, chief investment officer of QFR Capital Management, a New York-based asset manager, said that financial crises typically occurred when countries took on too much external credit relative to their domestic savings.

Only Japan suffered a financial crisis with internally generated savings, but the key difference compared to China is that Japanese wages were significantly higher.

An issue of increased focus among China-watchers is the impact of Prime Minister Li Keqiang's anti-corruption drive, something which Chanos says he underestimated.

"I thought it was settling old scores but now I think it's more serious than that.

"The first wave was luxury goods, hospitality, and now the second wave is upon us. Anti-corruption is having an impact on all cash buyers of property."

Daza said the corruption crackdown could lead to a slowdown in new projects and investments in China.

"When the rules change people become paralysed and it may well lead to paralysis on decision making."

But Liqun said the impact of the anti-corruption drive was overstated and ultimately positive.

"It will reduce demand for luxury products but it's good for China because it improves state governance and will change the system, " he said.

Participants at the SALT conference were divided about how to invest in China's economy.

Renowned economist Jim O'Neill says investing in China should focus on 'luxury-lite' firms.
