
The bank will pay $660.5 million in restitution to the Internal Revenue Service.

May 19, 2014 6:52 p.m.

(Bloomberg) --  Credit Suisse AG pleaded guilty to helping Americans cheat on their taxes, making it the first bank in more than a decade to admit to a crime in a U.S. courtroom and marking the end of a three-year probe of the Swiss firm.

The plea also signals a tougher posture by the Justice Department, which has faced criticism that it avoided pursuing large banks after the 2008 financial crisis because of the potential economic fallout.

"Credit Suisse AG pleads guilty, your honor," Alan Reifenberg, a managing director of the bank, told U.S. District Judge Rebecca Smith Monday afternoon in Alexandria, Va.

The bank will pay $660.5 million in restitution to the Internal Revenue Service. Credit Suisse is said to have reached an agreement to pay $2.5 billion to resolve the case, a person familiar with the matter has said. The penalty includes a $715 million payment to New York's Department of Financial Services, a person with knowledge of the matter said. The state banking regulator also called for the termination of certain employees and an independent monitor, the person said.

Credit Suisse AG is the bank subsidiary of the ultimate parent, Credit Suisse Group AG. Credit Suisse AG has dozens of subsidiaries that conduct most of the firm's business, according to its most recent annual report. The financial institution was charged by the U.S. along with two subsidiaries earlier Monday.

Credit Suisse assisted U.S. clients in using sham entities to disguise undeclared accounts, failed to maintain U.S. account information and destroyed records sent to U.S. clients, according to court papers filed in Alexandria federal court. Judge Smith accepted the firm's plea and set sentencing for Aug. 12.

The bank also helped clients withdraw money from accounts by providing hand-delivered cash or using Credit Suisse's correspondent bank accounts in the U.S., the government said. The bank structured such transactions in a way that would evade currency reporting requirements, according to the filing.

Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer Brady Dougan, an American, downplayed the offshore business and the extent of the wrongdoing during a Senate hearing in February. Mr. Dougan, 54, is starting to lose support in Switzerland, with the Swiss Social Democrats, the second-biggest party in parliament, calling for his resignation along with that of Chairman Urs Rohner.

Credit Suisse hasn't identified as many account holders as bigger rival UBS AG did in its earlier agreement.

In 2009, UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and disclosing to the U.S. the names of 250 American clients. UBS later settled a U.S. lawsuit by revealing the names of 4,450 more account holders.

The last global bank to plead guilty in the U.S. was Credit Lyonnais SA, which admitted in 2004 it made false statements to the Federal Reserve. Banks including Zurich-based Credit Suisse, UBS, HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. avoided convictions through settlements in recent years. While prosecutors have extracted guilty pleas from subsidiaries of some large banks, they have spared holding companies.

The Credit Suisse case involves tax evasion by U.S. clients that dates back decades, according to the government. After U.S. prosecutors charged seven Credit Suisse bankers and a trust company manager in 2011 for helping Americans hide $4 billion from the IRS, the case languished.

Managers in the cross-border business "knew and should have known that they were aiding and abetting U.S. customers in evading their U.S. income taxes," according to their indictment. The filing outlined how bankers helped 35 American customers use sham companies, foundations and trusts to hide their money from U.S. tax authorities. Bankers told U.S. clients to keep no records and access offshore funds with credit and debit cards.

The Justice Department told Credit Suisse it was a target of prosecutors in 2011. Settlement talks stalled during a standoff with the Swiss government over the handover of accounts.

Credit Suisse had set aside 720 million francs to resolve the case. It agreed to pay $196.5 million in February to settle a related investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

The lender is the largest of 14 Swiss banks facing similar criminal probes by the U.S. The agreement Monday could provide a road map for the 13 others seeking peace with the U.S. The outcome also could affect an additional 106 Swiss banks that are seeking non-prosecution agreements.

Sign up for our FREE daily email newsletter. A summary of the day's top business and political headlines from the newsroom of Crain's New York Business.
