
A potentially lethal batch of motorbike crash helmets which were on sale in the city have been seized by Peterborough Trading Standards.

The helmets, which were on sale for just £25, were so dangerous trading standards officers said it would be like not wearing head protection at all.

Now bikers are being warned to be aware of the risk of buying the cheap helmets on the internet.

Officers are urging anyone who has bought one to stop using it immediately and return it to their supplier. The helmets concerned are Jiekai model JK 100 or JK 1000.

Peter Stonely, Principal Trading Standards Officer, said: “As someone who does ride a motorcycle I am shocked by these results.

“They failed impact tests, being destroyed within two impacts, rather the full five it should take.

“This would give a rider almost no protection in a crash, increasing the chance of brain injury or death.

“They also failed a number of other tests.

“Wearing them would give the rider a sense of safety, which the helmet would not back up.

It is believed the helmets were old stock transported from China and purchased on the internet.

Anyone who thinks they may have purchased one of the affected helmets should stop using it immediately.

Howard Anderson, director at the British Motorcycle Federation (BMF) said: “The question you have to ask is how much is your head worth? You should only use recognised brands and helmets that have passed a Sharp Test.

“You get what you pay for and you should get the best helmet you can afford. There are plenty of good solid helmets available at reasonable prices.

Trading Standards officers attended this weekend’s BMF show at the Peterborough Showground offering advice about helmet safety.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Peterborough Telegraph provides news, events and sport features from the Peterborough area. For the best up to date information relating to Peterborough and the surrounding areas visit us at Peterborough Telegraph regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Peterborough Telegraph requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
