
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am always looking for what makes us more curious. What makes our lives as marketers and consumers new, amazing and incredible. Brilliant ideas transform you, they leave you feeling different when they enter your life. There's a serotonin bath of awe and wonder that ordinary, me-too products or people or ideas just don't offer. That's what we're here for: to create the new. So that's what this is about. And this isn't the end, it's just the beginning.

Last week, Chinese billionaire Gao Dekang stepped down as CEO of Bosideng International, one of the world’s largest manufacturers of down jackets. Two weeks ago, Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel was removed after the retailer disclosed a security breach. Mozilla’s embattled chief executive Brendan Eich resigned after a revolt among employees drew attention to political contributions he made in 2008.

Disney’s Media Networks co-Chairman Anne Sweeney removed herself recently to go into production. Lululemon’s CEO stepped down because, well, she wanted to.

Wait, we’re not done yet.

Burberry’s CEO Angela Ahrendts stepped over to Apple to run the computer company’s retailing arm. Yahoo CEO Scott Thompson is out after it was found he padded his resume with an embellished college degree. Blackberry’s CEO moved on for obvious reasons. Last year, chief executive officers at Intel, JCP, Citibank, Best Buy and Groupon stepped down.

What’s happening? Contemporary wisdom agrees that businesses (and the societies in which businesses operate) have become more complex over the last decade. Technology and social media and the digital revolution have created an environment where transparency and speed have become almost blinding.

On a typical day, the typical CEO today can be crisis managing something in social media. The next minute, it’s a call from the board asking why the stock price dropped. Next, they’ll be hearing about a glitch in production. Then they’re wooing a C-suite exec who fills miffed about, well, something.

Consumer demand. Labor use in China. How fast the ice cap is melting. The demands upon leadership can be crushing.

“Ten years ago, the thing you would hear on a regular basis is that it’s a lonely job,” agrees Damon. Today the CEO job is not just lonely. It is holy hell.

Nevertheless, men and women step forward.

That means—given just the seven or eight CEOs mentioned in the first paragraphs above—at least 50 potential candidates are being vetted, contacted, and may be considering moving elsewhere.

That’s a lot of shuffling at the top.

It is axiomatic in a nation where any citizen can become President that the dimensions of leadership are often discussed, debated, and analyzed. Amazon has over 100,000 titles on the subject. There are 23 TED Talks on leadership, characterized just as you might characterize your optimal C-suite executive: inspiring, persuasive, courageous and funny.

George Washington, our first national leader, was chunked down by one contemporary like this, “He was always the tallest man in the room”.

This story from David Kirk Hart: “A British war correspondent had gone into Normandy. He was particularly disgusted by the fact that the generals were living in mansions and estates, in posh digs, while the grunts were on the line. This reporter was really upset about this. The Nazis had parked two Panzer divisions near Cannes, and a Scottish division was to face the worst of the Panzers the next morning, attacking right into the Panzers. The reporter walks into battalion HQ, and asks the Sergeant Major, ‘Where’s the Lieutenant Colonel?’ only to be told that the LC is back in the back with the General.

How many CEOs does it take to screw up a light bulb? Wall Street and private equity firms have realized that the difference between an A-list CEO and a B-list CEO is significant.

Like social media, there seem to be several kinds of CEOs. Earned, shared, and paid.

Earned CEOs are the entrepreneurs who started at the top because they started their own enterprise. By flinging their idea off the cliff and making it fly, they earned their place in the ranks of corporate America. This includes everyone from Henry Ford and Walt Disney’s brother Roy, to Steve Jobs, Spanx founder Sara Blakely, Fred Smith, Oprah Winfrey, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Oracle CEO Larry Ellison, Howard Schultz, Elon Musk, former Kinko’s CEO Paul Orfalea, and numerous others.

Shared CEOs are the executives who shuffle from company to company, presented as either knights in shining armor or axe men—building, retrenching, selling off, pruning and managing the fundamentals, whether they are selling automobiles, soft drinks, or shoes. These traditionally solid bottom line men and women are the loneliest at the top, because—whether feared or idolized—their position does not permit making friends. Their number one asset (as far as the Board is concerned) is that they don’t set the house on fire. Their honeymoon period? These days, they get a year.

And.

Finally, paid CEOs. These are the A-list CEOs whose salaries, bonus packages and golden parachutes are featured on magazine covers. These brilliant stars shine so brightly, they can create a spatial black hole for others around them. Jack Welch. Michael Eisner. A.G. Lafley.

Nevertheless, today’s stakes are higher. The speed at which they have to move is accelerated. The complexity is multidimensional. Contemporary wisdom is that an A-list CEO will make much more of an impact than a lesser CEO.

And what about all the high salaries that are making headlines? Fact is, these brilliant A-list CEOs are worth it. They save jobs, they sustain communities, they help engineer the deals with governments and corporations that keep the company profitable.

The honest mistake is that we all assume hierarchy. We imagine a top/down structure where the CEO sits on top of the pyramid. What’s wrong with that picture is that it displays only half of the situation.

Imagine another pyramid—this time the pyramid is inverted and sits on top of the traditional pyramid. Point to point. Today’s CEO stands between those two points. Below him or her, is the chain of command flowing down to the other C-suite executives. The directors and executive vice presidents, middle management, supervisors and other co-workers. In the inverted pyramid above, are the shareholders, the Board, investors, and spouse.

The chief executive officer is pinned in the middle. Everyone has a boss.

What has brought such incredible harsh focus on chief executive officers like this week’s rumble over JP Morgan’s CEO Jamie Dimon is not so much the high pay, but the facts of failure. Too many officers have dismantled companies and outsourced jobs, in effect creating shells of office buildings and towns. These have been coupled by metaphor and hard facts: the age of bailouts, golden parachutes, corporate jets, sacking and pillaging, and in the end making sure the CEO and financial officer are okay before announcing Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Plus outright greed. It is time for other priorities to take precedence.

Another story from David Kirk Hart.

One officer got off the hill.
