
The US has charged five men who it described as "military hackers" with hacking into US corporations to steal secrets that could be useful to Chinese companies, in the first case of its kind.

A grand jury in the Western District of Pennsylvania indicted the five men for computer hacking, economic espionage and other offences directed at six US organisations in the nuclear power, metals and solar products industries.

"The range of trade secrets and other sensitive business information stolen in this case is significant and demands an aggressive response. Success in the global market place should be based solely on a company's ability to innovate and compete, not on a sponsor government's ability to spy and steal business secrets."

The US Justice Department said the five men were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army.

The US Justice department said the hacking took place between 2006 and this year and organisations targeted included Westinghouse Electric Co, US subsidiaries of SolarWorld, US Steel, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (ATI), the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW) and Alcoa Inc.

FBI director James B. Comey said: "For too long, the Chinese government has blatantly sought to use cyber espionage to obtain economic advantage for its state-owned industries."

The Department of Justice noted that an indictment is merely an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. The Chinese embassy in Washington could not immediately be reached for comment.

Waste of time and money.

Nothing is going to happen over this.

At the very least, there will either be a trial, or the defendants will plead guilty and thus be compelled to turn state's evidence.

If I were the Chinese Ambassador to the US, I'd be very unhappy about this state of affairs.

Nobody will show up.

And If I were the Chinese Ambassador I would be preparing charges against the NSA for doing the same thing.

Neither the article nor the indictment itself say so.  But if such is the case, then nothing will happen until/unless they end up in US custody.  Obviously, China won't be extraditing them, but their freedom of movement might be seriously affected.

It would be a trial in absentia I'm sure.  I can't imagine these people voluntarily coming here nor can I imagine them being extradited.   Not much chance of anything coming of this except hard feeling all the way around.

NSA this and NSA that... give me a break.  the US is so far behind the other countries it's us that are catching up.  But I don' think NSA i stealing secrets, just information.  right or wrong I could careless. We are just now in the mix. I have family that work for the FBI - what you guys worry about is comical.

ScanBack ,

They have been gathering all this  for 8 Years, there is no telling really on how much "Secrets" Communist China has stolen from the US. I would be embarrassed if I was a member or agent of this task force for taking so long investigating and gathering info(s) in this espionage case.

The US has been looting intellectual property from other countries for decades by various means. They have been abusing joint intelligence operations in Europe to strip mine their hosts, they have infiltrated allied governments to get their hands on high tech data and have violated sundry laws and conventions in their efforts to get ahead.

German industry is ranking the US at #3 after China and the CIS states in IP theft, and that's not simply US companies engaging in that theft but very much government agencies. I guess they intend to get on the good side of some senators who have their hands on the purse string by providing some of the companies in their home state with a nice gift from Uncle Sam.

Really ? What about what the NSA has been doing to US Citizens and other Governments ? Is that not also CYBER ESPIONAGE ? I believe it is.

I think things will just get worse.

Then it gets to put anyone in prison/execute that they accuse of working with the NSA for membership in an "illegal criminal organization".

I doubt that Chinese law provides for the criminal prosecution of foreign government agencies; rather it would be specific NSA employees.  And I'm guessing the only countries that would extradite someone to China for such an offense are Cuba, North Korea, Vietnam, and Laos (and I'm not terribly certain about the last two).

Don't throw stones sitting in a glass house.

the Us is silly. Just a typical case of a thief crying "stop thief". Just the PRISM is enough for the world to sue US.

What the USA done is actually a robbing as they claimed to China, stealing the secrets from the world all the time. However, as a victim, the attitudes of the Chinese government towards network security is always consistent and clear.

We're temporarily in maintenance mode, which means you won't be able to sign up for a newsletter. Please check back shortly to resume the subscription process. Thanks for your patience.

ZDNet Must Read News Alerts - US: Major news is breaking. Are you ready? This newsletter has only the most important tech news nothing else.

Learn how you can deploy best-of-breed revenue management solutions that drive scalable, proactive processes. Join us for this live, interactive webcast featuring CBS Interactive's Featured Contributor Bill Kleyman and Intacct's Cloud Financials Strategist Mark Gervase.

Learn how you can deploy best-of-breed revenue management solutions that drive scalable, proactive processes. Join us for this live, interactive webcast featuring CBS Interactive's Featured Contributor Bill Kleyman and Intacct's Cloud Financials Strategist Mark Gervase.
