
Laura Parsons is a currency analyst, writing economically motivated articles for the both press articles and websites.

Matthew Olney has a degree in newspaper and magazine journalism. He writes market updates for a number of online and printed publications.

Jerry Rowe has over 20 years experience working in the financial and banking sector, and currently works as a Senior Currency Trader.

The Australian Dollar softened against the US Dollar and a number of other peers as iron ore prices tumbled to a one-year low and as data out of China suggests that a slowdown is occurring in the world’s second largest economy.

Also weighing upon the ‘Aussie’ is an increase in risk aversion as investors remain cautious due to ongoing tensions between China and Vietnam and as the Ukraine crisis continues.

Iron ore which is Australia’s biggest export and main commodity tumbled as concerns grew that China is oversupplied.

Some economists are expecting the commodity’s value to fall to the lows seen in September 2012 when it sold for $US86 per tonne.

Today the steel-making ingredient declined by 20% to $US 100.70 per tonne.

“At a time when there are question marks over the robustness of the Chinese economy and particularly its steel industry and its demand for steel, it’s not surprising that we’ve seen the iron ore price retrace as it has,” said an analyst from Mine Life Resources.

Data out of China released over the weekend also weighed upon the ‘Aussie’.

House prices in Beijing tumbled more-than-forecast in April.

Sentiment also fell after it emerged that Chinese financial regulators tightened rules on bank lending in the country, the move increased worries that limited available credit would drag upon China’s growth prospects.

Risk aversion has also contributed to the softer ‘Aussie’ as Chinese ships were dispatched to Vietnam to evacuate thousands of Chinese national fleeing the country following attacks which have left two dead and many injured.

Tensions increased between the two Asian nations after China pressed ahead with oil drilling in a disputed part of the South China Sea.

Vietnamese and Chinese ships have clashed in recent weeks with water cannon and ramming.

China has dispatched military vessels to the region heightening tensions further.

Investors are also growing nervous ahead of Presidential elections in Ukraine. Concerns are growing that the nation is sliding into civil war. Pro-Russian separatists lunched an appeal for more fighters and the Ukrainian government has pushed ahead with its campaign against the rebels.

The ‘Aussie’ could regain ground on Tuesday when the RBA publishes the minutes of its latest policy meeting.
