
Our cookie policy has changed. Review our cookies policy for more details and to change your cookie preference.

By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.

English, French and British kings and queens have reigned over bits of what would eventually become Canada since the 16th century, when the first European explorers planted flags on the shores of what they believed was Asia. When Canada took its first big step towards independence in 1867, uniting disparate provinces under the dominion of Canada, the chief architects of the plan were adamant that the British sovereign would head the government they had modelled on the Westminster system. Among other things, this was thought to mark them out from the "godless republicans" in the south. Canadians opted again to retain the British monarchy in 1931 when the statute of Westminster formally recognised the independence of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the Irish Free State and Newfoundland (which joined Canada in 1949). At her coronation in 1953, Queen Elizabeth became not just the British sovereign but also Queen of Canada, Queen of Australia, and so on down through the 16 realms to Queen of Tuvalu.

As a result it seems unlikely the current government would contemplate removing the Queen as head of state. And without a greater swell of anti-monarchist feeling, future governments will also be put off by the lengthy and messy constitutional negotiations required for such a change. Prince Charles and the Duchess could rest easy as they celebrated the Queen’s official birthday in Canada on May 19th. Canadians have happily taken a day off work for this holiday since 1845. A few still do so out of royalist sentiment. But many more see it as the official start of summer.

Reader comments are listed below. Comments are currently closed and new comments are no longer being accepted.

That seems a rather specious analogy.

Do you know who else made specious analogies?  Yeah that's right,  Hitler.

"There can be no democracy if there is a monarchy - hereditary or otherwise."

You have to hand it to the Brits, for not only convincing themselves that a hereditary monarchy is the basis of their democracy, but for also managing to persuade other supposedly independent nations to accept that basic illogicality.

Strange article. It's like it's some sort of defense for the existence of the British monarchy. There can be no democracy if there is a monarchy - hereditary or otherwise.

All humans are created equal.

The Queen's "official birthday in Canada"? This seems to imply that this is a celebration of Queen Elizabeth II. This is just wrong. Queen Elizabeth II's birthday is April 21st, and isn't a holiday on that date or any other in Canada. Certainly we wouldn't have celebrated her birth since 1845. I believe the author is referring to Victoria day, which is celebrated on the last Monday before May 25th every year, in celebration of the birthday of Queen Victoria (born May 24th). This happens to fall on the 19th this year.

You are inventing problems, simply because a democratic country with a constitutional monarchy doesn't fit with how you think the world should work.

You think that the world can be understood on the basis of simple one sentence principles.  When the observed world contradicts you, you ignore it and claim that your precious principles are all that matters.

This is not a good method of understanding things.

Simply put, Canada works. As do the other realms such as Australia and New Zealand.

I have read through all the negative comments regrading the Crown but the simply fact is that countries such as the UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand rank as some of the wealthiest and most stable countries on Earth.

The Crown is more than the person. Just as the US flag is more that the cloth it is made from. Or a bible is more than the paper it is printed on.

The fact is that there is trust in the system. A system that has an enviable track record and is considered more democratic than many countries that actually elect their head of state.

I, for one, am glad I was lucky enough to be born and to live within this system.

They have done some pretty radical things though: their adoption of the Charter of Rights which they interpret much more progressively that the US Constitution; their treatment of their Aboriginal peoples (not entirely fairly but much better than, say, Australia or the USA); their constitutional recognition of same-sex relationships; their explicit embrace of multiculturalism and entrenchment of affirmative action in their constitution; their European-style healthcare system; Mulroney's support for Mandela, compared with Reagan's support for Apartheid; etc. Each of these does make them radically different from their southern neighbour, I believe. I therefore don't believe that ridding themselves of the monarchy would make them more American.

I'm a Canadian, and I'm pretty much see myself as pragmatist. But I gotta say, I'm totally fine with the Queen as our Head of State. There really isn't any bother one way or the other, and its kind of fun to be caught up in the Royal celebrity.

Lord knows we'd rather have Royal celebrity with it's pomp and pageantry than US-style celebrity with it's disgusting lust for classlessness.

Unfortunately the latter is rubbing off on Canada (see Rob Ford, Justin Bieber), so we need the Royals to come in and remind us that celebrity can be family-friendly, exciting, majestic, and awe-inspiring. Its not so much about hereditary monarchy as it is about differentiating ourselves from the US's powerful cultural imperialism.

In 1953, when the Queen toured Canada, she stopped off in Hamilton, Ontario to give a speech. My grandmother, who was an "Avon lady", was busy doing her route that day and encountered the Queen giving a speech in front of the Royal Cannaught Hotel. Frustrated that the televised press conference was in her way, and long before intensive security surrounded any monarch, my grandmother simply walked behind the Queen as she gave her speech.

Later, when my English-born grandfather was watching the speech on TV, he saw my grandmother walk behind the Queen. Shocked, he asked her what she was thinking, and my grandmother retorted simply, "Whatever, she puts on her pants one leg at a time, just like the rest of us." She was the best.

The English Queen does not have the right to veto laws and the Crown hasn't successfully attempted it for three hundred years.  The Queens' Ascent to Bills is ceremonial. Although the UK is a monarchy effective power rests with the elected Government.

I don't have to rationalize anything. The evidence is right in front of your face.

The "royal families" of Europe have immunity from prosecution and this immunity is valid both while abroad (as if they are diplomats) and at home (no other persons have this benefit). In fact, by a Danish judge's decree, this immunity extended to the family pet (the Dachsund Evita), which should have been euthanized after repeatedly biting guards.

"Democracy contrasts with forms of government where power is either held by one person, as in a monarchy, or where power is held by a small number of individuals, as in an oligarchy."

Hey Branáin,

The case can be made that both the electoral college and the monarchy both make no sense in theory. However, in practice, the electoral college has precedent for denying the will of the majority (four times has the president won the electoral college without winning the popular vote) but I cannot think of any practical cost or negative impact as a result of having a monarchy.

If it's not broke, don't fix it.

Measly. Fragility of the Canadian nationhood? to say a foreign monarch is the glue holding a nation together is ridiculous. Moreover, to trumpet the idea as some positive differentiator to US sovereignty is bordering on absurd.

What differentiates Canada is that it is full of Canadians, not that the head of state resides in a remote island across the Atlantic.

Talking about botching.

I wouldn't call it low self esteem, I'd call it modesty.

And we Canadians are better than anyone in the world at being modest!

Having someone from a foreign country has head of state is ridiculous, whether is the Queen of England or the King of Spain. But I suppose a small number of Canadians still have historical and emotional links to the British Empire, even if its long gone, like to dodo birds. The majority simply does not care, since their presence is almost inexistent. Those 'royals' are like Disney characters, mostly dull, amusing at times, specially during the 'royal' tours, but vastly ignored by the general population. Its probably harder for the 'royals' to play the boring role, knowing that nobody does not really care.

*CORRECTION* The provincial viceroys are styled Lieutenant-GOVERNORs.
