
Part of the poster against street harassment created by Mica Cruz.

What make women uncomfortable in public places? Artist Mica Cruz has created a digital poster that gives a "Hindi ito okay (This is not okay)" tag on behaviors that make women unsafe, nervous, and afraid.

She said she started working on the poster, which has gone viral, after being harassed on the street "for the nth time earlier that day."

"Every time I get catcalled, I feel singled out, objectified, and at the back of my head, unsafe. Some would say these are compliments, but I believe every self-respecting woman would agree that the delivery of these statements are mostly done in a demeaning and sexually objectifying manner with the purpose of either aggressively getting your attention or to impress/entertain their peers," she told InterAksyon.com in an e-mail.

Unfortunately, she found that some men blamed women for dressing “provocatively.” Netizens, however, pointed out that harassment happened even to women who were conservatively attired.

"Women should be able to dress however they please and still be respected as human beings. Our hemline is not permission for people to talk to us rudely and in an aggressively sexual manner,” Cruz said.

To some who said catcalls and such should be taken as a compliment, she said. "But it does not feel that way, maybe because people who say this on the street are not saying this (to brighten) up your day, but instead... to grab an unsuspecting woman's attention for fun or to entertain their peers."

She maintained that there was "a line between a polite greeting and a catcall. It depends on one's delivery and intention. And we can all see it if the person is saying these things just for fun. It is never comfortable to know that some stranger is checking you out and objectifying you in public. What more if this person vocalizes that action?"

What can women do? Cruz said that for starters, they can go to the website www.stopstreetharassment.org , run by nonprofit organization Stop Street Harassment (SHS).

Here, Netizens will learn more about what the group calls a "global human rights problem." It says that gender-based street harassment "makes public places unfriendly and even scary for many girls, women, and LGBQT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Queer, and Transgender/Transsexual) folks."

"Catcalls, sexist comments, gender-policing, leering, flashing, groping, stalking, and sexual assault," all methods of street harassment, "limit...access to public spaces" for people.

Thus, the group has been holding Meet Us On the Street: International Anti-Street Harassment Week annually since 2012. It coincides with Sexual Assault Awareness Month in the United States.

In the Bahamas, advocates wrote chalk messages like, "Street harassment is NOT a compliment," on sidewalks.

In Bosnia and Herzegovina, educators conducted workshops for high school students on street harassment and violence.

Self-defense demonstrations were held in Chile and Colombia.

In Egypt, volunteers went around a neighborhood and talked about street harassment to people aged seven to 50, getting the latter to express "zero tolerance" toward the issue. They even had people share their own experiences of street harassment.

An online survey was conducted in the Fiji Islands, with the data generated to be used "to advocate for safer public spaces."

Whistles were distributed in Germany.

People also used the "Safetipin" app to indicate safe and unsafe areas they pass by.

In Kenya, a discussion on street harassment revealed that even boys were targets. The group of mostly male street children said that they had been approached for sex, called names for being homeless, and chased away from public areas, according to SHS.

In Nepal, a street protest was held to demand the government "to repair and maintain street lights... to make (the) city safer."
