
Kenya: Besieged Attorney General Githu Muigai on Monday came out to defend himself and the State Law Office over the controversial payment of Sh1.4 billion to Anglo Leasing contracts.

Prof Githu convened a press conference and gave a chronology of events leading to the payments, as he sought to distance himself from blame, adding that the State sought legal opinion from experts.

He dismissed the argument that his office compromised the case – thereby exposing the country to massive losses in dubious payments. He also challenged the notion that the Government failed to defend the cases both in Switzerland and the UK.

A visibly agitated Githu said the Government sought opinion from one of the most prestigious law firms in London and globally on the cases.

Although he did not directly mention names, the AG pointed an accusing finger at his predecessor and current Busia Senator Amos Wako, and former ministers Musalia Mudavadi and Chris Obure (Transport and Finance ministers in 2002) and former Postmaster General Francis Chahonyo who were in office when the mega deals were signed.

“The man you see before you is a mortician. The patient died on the operating table long time ago. Githu Muigai is the mortician. If you think the patient should have lived, ask the surgeons,” Githu said.

The AG , who is constitutionally the chief legal advisor to the Government, further sought to distance the State Law Office from any blame saying their role was only restricted to advisory.

“It’s not for the AG ’s office to say what has been supplied or not but the relevant ministry, and PWC have constantly admitted that broadband was supplied. The AG makes legal opinions and as to what the persons advised has to do, it’s upon them,” Prof Githu said.

Speaking moments after the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) moved to court and petitioned Parliament to eject him, Githu told journalists that he had called them to respond to unwarranted attacks in the media, public places and funerals by people targeting his officers, his office and himself.
