
Nova Scotia is at a very important crossroads. On one hand, we have a very bright and prosperous future ahead of us if we embrace an open-door policy for our economy. The blueprint is there, largely in part thanks to the Ivany report.

On the other hand, if we don’t stop speaking out of both sides of our mouths, then we’re doomed to become a slowly disintegrating economy filled with failed dreams and hope. There is very little difference between what could be and what actually is. It is simply perception and not getting caught up in hyped-up false realities or unsustainable opportunities that can burdon our province’s finances.

One of the key components to all this, in my opinion, is energy development. On that front, Premier Stephen McNeil and Minister of Energy Andrew Younger are to be congratulated on the recent announcement that more parcels of our offshore will be open to the bidding process . BP is getting ready to explore its offshore areas and Shell isn’t far behind.

Onshore, it seems we have little in the way of viable gas and oil reserves, at least by conventional means. Fracking, if given the green light by the Wheeler commission , could change all this. Let’s hope it does.

On the renewable energy front, Chris Huskilson and Emera are to be congratulated for their recent successful bond issue in financing the coming link to bring hydro to Nova Scotia from Labrador. This important project, when completed, should go a long ways to securing, at least in part, our long-term energy supply.

Regionally, the Maritimes could be on the cusp of an economic rebirth. We have Trans Canada Pipeline looking to build a west-east pipeline to bring western crude to the Irving refinery in Saint John. This should benefit Nova Scotia, as we have a highly skilled work force that will be able to take advantage of any opportunities that may arise from this.

We also have a recent development on Quebec’s Anticosti Island that could be a game changer for Quebec and the Maritimes. Phil Knoll, CEO of Halifax-based Corridor Resources, recently said there may be as many as 46 billion barrels of oil there. When Mr. Knoll speaks, one should listen. If the project gets going, this could present many opportunities for Nova Scotians. One can’t help but think about another potential pipeline to take oil to the Irving Refinery.

Shipbuilding not withstanding, a recent report by Industrial Alliance states that provincial standards of living are directly related to the amount of oil and natural gas production. Provincial gross domestic product per capita in 2012 was $80,516 in Alberta, $72,189 in Saskatchewan and $68,964 in Newfoundland and Labrador, the three oil-producing provinces. These figures are way above the Canadian average of $52,177 as well as the figures for the two most populous provinces, Ontario and Quebec. Energy production also helped those provinces increase their working age population, mainly through interprovincial migration, contributing to healthy public finances.

My bet is yes we do and yes we can.

Everything has a best-before date, and economic principles are no exception.

For example, we have passed through an era where growth, basically population growth, was used to justify market driven mechanisms for the distribution of goods and services.

Such an approach assumes endless resources and infinite market (consumer population) growth. Both are logically impossible on a finite planet. The question has always been when is the best-before date, and there has been considerable resistance from defenders of the status quo that we have not reached it. But they are also the ones who profit most by denying the date, so their view must be taken with a grain of salt.

There is compelling evidence that we have reached it. Where once we went out to sea for fish, now they are being produced in our bays and harbours, increasing pollution and disease locally. Where once industry drilled for fuel in the middle of nowhere, now they want to poke holes and inject chemicals around our properties, contaminating wells and creating who knows what damage to the earth. Both, too close to home.
