
The impact of China’s social and economic progress on the strategic balance in Asia and across the Pacific were examined in an absorbing lecture on 28 April 2014 by eminent scholar Paul Evans, Professor of Asian and Trans-Pacific International Relations at the Liu Institute for Global Issues, University of British Columbia. He is also Visiting Professor of Asian and International Affairs at SMU.

In the lecture, titled “China’s Rise and Regional Responses: Conflict Ahead”, Professor Evans argued that rarely has such a major power transition occurred without a military war or Cold War. He said that China’s rise has resulted in increased competition, contested sovereignty and rising nationalism. To reverse this escalation of tension, the major powers need to adjust not only their policies but also their attitudes to China. He also explored the consequences of this evolving situation for smaller countries such as Canada and Singapore and examined how regional institutions and economic interdependence can contribute to defusing strategic rivalry.

Among the distinguished guests were Mr Teo Chiang Long, Vice President of Ngee Ann Kongsi and Executive Director of Ngee Ann Development Pte Ltd; Professor Tommy Koh, Ambassador-At-Large at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Ambassadors and diplomatic representatives of Australia, Peru, The Philippines and Venezuela; government officials, business leaders, academics and representatives of educational and charitable organisations. SMU undergraduates and faculty and staff members also attended the 30-minute lecture and hour-long forum, which was moderated by Professor James T.H. Tang, Dean and Professor of Social Science, School of Social Sciences at SMU. Those raising questions and debating with Professor Evans during the forum included Professor Tommy Koh; Professor Kenneth Stuart Courtis, Non-Executive Director at CapitaLand Limited; Mr Ron Stride, Chairman of the charitable organisation Food from the Heart; SMU Associate Professor of Law Henry Gao; and Alvin Lee, Deputy Editor at the SMU Centre for Management Practice.

The lecture series was established through a generous donation of  S$3 million from the Teochew charitable organisation Ngee Ann Kongsi in November 2007. In recognition of the generous gift, SMU named a 300-seat conference hall the Ngee Ann Kongsi Auditorium and launched the Ngee Ann Kongsi Annual Lecture Series with its inaugural lecture in January 2008. The series has established itself as a platform for industry leaders and eminent scholars who are leading voices in the debate on global issues that are shaping the future of business, society and the environment.

Past speakers in the series include Professor Kenneth Stuart Courtis (who attended the lecture in 2014); Professor Yukon Huang, Senior Advisor of the World Bank; and Tan Sri Andrew Sheng, Chief Advisor of China Banking Regulatory Commission.
