
BEIJING: President Mamnoon Hussain has said that Pakistan attaches great importance to the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) to be held in Shanghai, China from May 20-21.

President made these remarks in an interview with the Chinese media at the Presidential Palace before leaving for China to attend the summit.

"CICA is a very important regional forum that can promote regional peace, security and stability among the member countries, " the president told Xinhua, adding that Pakistan fully shares the goal of CICA.

He said Pakistan expects that the member countries would further strengthen this forum and find ways to implement its ideals and guiding principles into political and economic realities for the benefit of the entire region.

As China is going to take over the CICA presidency from 2014 to 2016, Pakistan would like to extend the warmest felicitations, Hussain said.

China is going to play a very important role in CICA, he said, adding he hopes the regional stability and cooperation will be significantly improved with China taking the chair of CICA.

Pakistan is confident that the Shanghai summit will be a great success, he noted.

The CICA conference will gather 11 foreign heads of state, one head of government and 10 leaders of international organizations, a senior Chinese diplomat revealed on Sunday.

The 11 foreign heads of states are the presidents of Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Sri Lanka, said Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cheng Guoping at a press briefing.

Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu will come as special representative of Turkish President Abdullah Gul. Gul cannot visit China as scheduled due to a deadly coal mine explosion in western Turkey.

Chinese President Xi Jinping will hold bilateral meetings with foreign leaders on the sidelines of the summit, Cheng said.

The CICA was established in 1992 as a forum for dialogue and consultations. It now has 24 member countries and 13 observers. The CICA member countries have nailed down confidence-building measures in the areas of military and politics, new threats and challenges, economy, culture and ecology.
