
If it goes through, it will indeed be one for the history books and will secure her a spot among the world’s richest women. But whether or not she’ll actually receive most of that money is not clear.

For those who have not been following this twisted case, the couple split in 2009 and has been fighting in courts and in the media ever since. Not too surprisingly then, Dmitry’s camp has a much different view of the recently issued ruling.

“It’s a win for Dmitry,” says Sergey Chernitsyn, a spokesman for Rybolovlev. Meanwhile his lawyer Tetiana Bersheda issued his own statement, commenting on the merits of the ruling, specifically the fact that the trusts created by Rybolovlev for their two daughters were not part of the ruling. “The transfer of property to heirs through the trust structures, in particular to the couple’s children, is therefore immune from legal challenge and is assured.” He also pointed out that the award of $4.5 billion will face a new appellate review and is not final.

One fact not up for debate is that Ryoblovlev is a very rich man, worth $8.8 billion, according to Forbes’ latest count. Rybolovlev started his business with his scientist father in 1990 after studying medicine at the Perm Medical Institute. In 1992, he opened an investment fund and, like other future Russian tycoons, began buying shares of industrial enterprises from the local population. He eventually became chairman of Uralkali Uralkali , Russia’s largest producer of potassium fertilizers, founded in the 1930s. The company listed in London in 2007, raising $1 billion.

Elena filed for divorce in Palm Beach court in 2009 and a year later Dmitry cashed out of his company, selling his stake for $6.5 billion. Apparently much of that cash and also a chunk of the couple’s assets were transferred to trusts, set up to benefit their two children, which may well exclude them from the divorce proceedings. That includes Donald Trump’s Palm Beach mansion, Maison de L’Amitie, which he bought for $95 million in 2008. Other assets that appear to be off-limits include the record-setting $88 million New York apartment bought in 2011 and the Greek islands of Scorpios and Sparti that once belonged to Athina Onassis purchased two years later for a reported $150 million. In both cases, corporations acquired the assets and put them in trusts benefitting the couple’s 25-year-old daughter Ekaterina. Her mother has sued over these sales, as well as the $20 million purchase of a Hawaiian island from actor Will Smith , claiming that her ex-husband is moving the money into these vehicles to make it difficult for her to be able to collect her money.

Which brings up the very real question of how much indeed she will be able to recover, given these complicated trusts but also the fact that the bulk of the fortune is held outside of Switzerland.

Forbes did not reach her lawyer Marc Bonnard, who represented Lily Safra , the widow of banking billionaire Edmund, and is currently representing troubled Israeli diamond billionaire Beny Steinmetz.

The $4.5 billion ruling is certainly not the slam dunk her lawyers would have one think, at least if history between this former couple is any indicator.
