
MANILA, Philippines — Chinese President Xi Jinping insisted on China's "peaceful way of development" amid violent protests against China in Vietnam and widespread distrust in the Philippines for the Asian powerhouse.

"There is no 'invasion gene' in Chinese people's DNA and they won't accept the logic that might is right," Xi said, addressing non-government group Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries on Friday, as quoted by state news outfit Xinhua.

Xi assured the audience that China will stick to the path of peace and take on more international responsibilities as a rising global power.

Without citing the South China dispute with the Philippines and Vietnam, the Chinese leader also vowed to help ease contentious international issues.

"China will not pursue hegemony," Xi said, apparently in answer to rising nationalistic sentiments within China and impressions that China poses as a security threat abroad.

Xi also cited instances in China's long history as among the world's first civilizations when it promoted peaceful exchanges with neighbors, specifically under the Han dynasty.

He said that the Silk Road was a venue for intercultural trade, while an expedition under the Ming dynasty to the Middle East and East Africa six centuries ago was among the first diplomatic voyages from the region.

Xi also encouraged the group to strengthen friendly exchanges with neighboring countries and join hands in the face of severe global challenges.

Whether the president's calming words would do much to appease renewed tensions over the China's reclamation work on disputed Mabini Reef, its oil rig near the Vietnam-claimed Paracel Islands and its unilateral declarations of sovereignty over Japan-run Senkaku Island remains to be seen.

In 2011, Xi met with Philippine Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario and cited his vision for China's peaceful road to development.

"China and the Philippines share a long-standing and well-established friendship," Xi said.

"China will, under the principles of equality, mutual benefit and common development, further its cooperation with the Philippines in various fields," he added.

The Philippines has been accusing China for years of deploying maritime patrol vessels and of attacking Filipino fishermen with water cannons in the contested area of the West Philippine Sea.

Manila has also lodged an arbitration case against Beijing before a United Nations tribunal. Beijing, however, opposed the case and refused to cooperate in the proceedings.
