
SONIQ has sharpened its focus on internet Smart TV from 2009 and has independently researched and developed an Android based Platform named Cinavision which provides easy and convenient internet experience to its users. Functions such as video, shopping and financial service made viewing information online conveniently as well as enjoying the Australian slow-pace life possible at their own living rooms. In such a fierce competitive market, SONIQ built its core competence with a new operating mode. On top of its current simple App that contains videos, audios, sharing and games, SONIQ has started to integrate various mediums to its products with rich offline resources and service from the traditional industry. More and more people will have access to the richness of the internet.

During the press conference, a summit dialogue was held with the theme "Open up New Epoch for Big Screen TV in China". Representatives from enterprises such as Harman/Kardon, Australia JB HI-FI, 360, BesTV, LG Display, RRS, China Market Monitor, The City Television Station Union Committee and academic communities such as Australian Monash University were present to share their thoughts. Attendees have shown mutual understanding on the importance of crossover cooperation and are expecting to join forces in working together in the future.

Debuting at the Chinese market, the newest products of SONIQ were customized for Chinese consumers, including three types of Smart TVs, two series of Micro Cast, and one kind of Smart TV box and TV Dongle. With consistent excellent quality, these products aim to provide world level Smart appliances.

The three internet Smart TVs Future Series F65, Ultimate Series U55 and Boutique Series O49 adopted dual-core processor, Cortex-A9 MPCore, built-in Mali-400 GPU and can operate with frequency 1.2 Ghz. The Future Series F65 is SONIQ's summit series that has adopted the aviation aluminum alloy frame structure with superior texture and fashionable design of a nearly borderless frame. Built with imported IPS 65 inches module screen, the resolution of F65 can reach the level of 3840*2160 that is equivalent to authentic 4K. It can also run with high dynamic refresh rate and display with a broad perspective.

F65, with its fashionable design and unique audiovisual system, put every detail in front of its audience. Both Future Series F65 and Ultimate Series U55 are using the world cutting-edge stereo system of Harman/Kardon. They have excellent sound quality and have strong signal-to-noise ratio. Moreover, Ultimate Series U55 used the original LG module screen which is 55 inches.

Boutique Series O49 is equipped with 49 inches LG IPS screen and is of piano paint borderless design. The three products have comfortable 3D function together with 4 pairs of 3D glasses for family members to watch 3D movie.

SONIQ not only own its outstanding hardware, but can also offer large volume of video contents. SONIQ series U55, F65, O49 Smart TV, AMB100 Smart TV box, AHW101 TV Dongle, LP300/LP100 LED Smart projection TV used BesTV internet TV platform as the only content for the broadcast control platform. Koala micro cast and Koala mini micro cast acted as the representatives of pocket big screen the LED Smart projection TV. Having a dual ARM Cortex A7 1 g processor combined with ARM Mali 400 graphics processors, they are energy efficient, of high-definition image quality and of high value for money.
