
China is continuing to evacuate nationals from Vietnam after days of deadly anti-Chinese riots.

Crowds attacked and torched Chinese-owned businesses in retaliation for recent clashes between Chinese and Vietnamese ships in the oil-rich South China Sea.

Eric Campbell of the ABC's Foreign Correspondent program gained access to the area at the centre of growing military tensions across Asia.

ERIC CAMPBELL: We're 110 nautical miles from the Philippine mainland and a Chinese Coast Guard vessel is closing fast. Our destination is a Filipino marine base under siege.

The Chinese Coast guard has blocked the last three boats trying to bring supplies to the marines. The captain advises us to brace for water cannon.

Disputes like this are ramping up across the South China Sea as China pushes its claim for exclusive sovereignty over two island chains surrounded by oil and gas fields.

Two weeks ago Chinese vessels forced their way past Vietnamese ships in the Paracel Islands to install a billion-dollar oil rig.

Video footage of a Vietnamese ship being rammed sparked anti-Chinese riots across Vietnam. At the same time, the Philippines released pictures of what it claims was China's illegal incursions into the nearby Spratly Islands.

ERIC CAMPBELL: Lt Col Demy Zagala is the military spokesman.

DEMY ZAGALA: And it's very unfortunate that China has acted aggressively compared to other countries.

ERIC CAMPBELL: The Philippines granted the ABC's Foreign Correspondent program rare access to its Spratly Island military bases.

China asserts sovereignty over nearly the entire South China Sea.

We managed to get past seven Chinese ships blockading the Filipino marine base at a reef called Ayungin Shoal. The marines' commander is Lieutenant Earl Pama.

EARL PAMA: They claim this territory as their own, sir, territory of the People's Republic of China, sir. That's what happened to every vessel, ship, boat - they will be blocked, sir.

ERIC CAMPBELL: The men are holed up on a rusting World War II ship which the Philippines scuttled here in 1999. For the most part they survive by spearing or shooting reef fish.

But hours after we arrived, the air force dropped supplies of food and water on the deck, including morale-boosting boxes of soft drink, fried chicken and Spam.

ERIC CAMPBELL: The dispute has been relatively benign since 1988 when 64 Vietnamese sailors were killed in a reef skirmish with China. But China's growing assertiveness is raising fears the conflict could once more spiral out of control.

Add the hashtag #raonair to add your tweets to the conversation.

Email us your thoughts on an issue. Messages may be used on air.
