
HONG KONG (MarketWatch) — Conventional wisdom says that if Beijing doesn’t want a bursting property bubble, it simply won’t have one.

Despite mounting concerns as China’s real-estate market reverses, don’t expect to see property fire sales, bankruptcies or banks reporting ballooning bad debts. A simplistic argument perhaps, but it appears to have held so far.

Another interpretation is that this is simply denial as China refuses to mark its property assets to market: The trouble will emerge, however, as its hamstrung banks are forced to rein in lending, cutting off their life support to the wider economy.

This was one lesson from the painful aftermath of Japan’s property bubble back in the 1990s, and one which Nomura argues — in a new report — is relevant to China. It says there are now many similarities between China’s property market today and Japan’s two decades ago.

The obvious parallel is the scale of the property boom. Both Japan and China let property lending race ahead of GDP growth and experienced overheating economic activity, coupled with aggressive bank lending.

But perhaps the most important similarity between these two property markets is behavioral: an institutional failure to publicly face up to an ugly bad-loan situation as the market reversed.

Seizo Fukumoto is one of Japan's top "kirareyaku" actors, stuntmen who specialize in being killed by samurai in movies and TV shows.

In Japan’s case, a weak regulatory regime and lax accounting meant there was an unwillingness to impose discipline, and no financial institutions were forced into bankruptcy.

Although direct lending to real estate at the time was less than 20% of the nation’s total loan portfolio, over the next decade Japan’s banks eventually wrote off a cumulative 25% of all outstanding loans, according to Nomura estimates. This period gave rise to Japan’s “zombie banks,” which took much of the blame for the country’s infamous “lost decade” of growth.

Likewise in China today, there is widespread skepticism that Chinese banks are revealing anything close to a true picture of their non-performing loans. Between loans regularly rolled over, murky lending to well-connected state-owned entities and the explosion in shadow banking, it all contributes to a similarly opaque environment.

Recognizing bad debts effectively becomes a political compromise. Nomura estimates half of Chinese banks’ loans books include some sort of property collateral.

Another similarity they highlight is the levels of hubris. Back then, Japan was the “next big thing” in the global economy — the world’s largest creditor nation, collecting accolades for everything from its economic performance to its corporate management ethos.

China meanwhile has been told it is only a matter of time before it overtakes the U.S. to become the world’s largest economy, and it could even one day see the yuan USDCNY, -0.04%   usurp the greenback DXY, -0.13%  as the world’s reserve currency.

Perhaps then, we shouldn’t worry about ghost cities of uninhabited investment properties, since they will eventually fill up, and all those problematic loans will take care of themselves. The worst Beijing appears to countenance is that GDP growth will slow to 7%.

This line of thinking suggests investors should not just be looking for fresh signs of a real-estate slowdown, but also be alert to China encountering a Japan-style economic hangover.

There has been no shortage of red flags.

At the beginning of this year, George Soros warned that China’s property market could be the biggest risk to the world economy. Since then, it appears that every week brings a fresh analyst report detailing the latest visit to China’s vast construction sites.

Morgan Stanley writes in a new note that one of the top concerns of U.S. investors is whether China will cut interest rates due to weakening growth and property prices.

Yet if China truly faces a situation comparable to Japan’s, one lesson they may benefit from is that interest-rate cuts proved less effective when banks were preoccupied with repairing their balance sheets.

But another problem is that China’s central bank now has less control over interest rates, having allowed loosely regulated shadow banking to grow so extensively.

Standard Chartered calculates that funding costs are actually rising if you look at weighted financing costs, including trust products and corporate bonds, as well as bank loans. They say this number has added 80 basis points to rates over the past year.

Meanwhile there are other factors, which are likely to keep pressure on interest rates to move higher, including slowing deposit growth and planned interest-rate deregulation.

The difficulty is that banks face rising funding costs, while still having the obligation to lend to meet GDP growth targets, says Nomura.

This, they add, is where Chinese banks will face a liquidity squeeze, causing a turn in the credit cycle. The banks will be forced to stop lending to low-margin companies, as they won’t be able to afford subsidizing this lending from their own profits.

It may still be too early to see if China’s property market will implode Japan-style. Yet China’s weak financial discipline means investors should watch for the potential fallout showing up in unexpected places.

Japan’s experience suggests China should let the market speedily deal with busted companies, rather than keeping alive its own zombies.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
