
NATO is considering whether to ask Canada and other member countries to establish permanent bases in the Baltic states, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria — or establish a regular rotation of troops through those countries — to shore up its eastern defences following Russia’s seizure of Crimea and threats against eastern Ukraine,  Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said Monday. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s actions in Crimea and eastern Ukraine were a “wake-up call” that had “unintentionally” made the trans-Atlantic alliance stronger, Rasmussen said. Putin promised for the third time Monday that Russia was withdrawing the 40,000 troops that it has deployed for several months near Ukraine’s eastern borders, but the former Danish prime minister said there had been no sign of this.The following is a transcript of the interview with NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen.

In what could be an attempt to ease tensions with the West and avoid more sanctions, President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian troops deployed near Ukraine to return to their home bases Monday.

Putin also praised the launch of a dialogue between Ukraine’s government and its opponents even as fighting continued in parts of the country ahead of Sunday’s presidential election.

The seemingly conciliatory approach suggested that Putin may believe he has achieved his key goal of maintaining Russian influence over eastern Ukraine without having to send in troops.

Russia still wants guarantees that Ukraine will not join NATO and will conduct constitutional reforms to give broader powers to its regions, something that would allow Moscow to maintain its clout in the Russian-speaking east that forms the industrial heartland. The continued unrest in the east is serving Putin by making it difficult for the government in Kyiv to consolidate its control in the region.

Putin specifically ordered Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu to pull back the forces involved in the “planned spring drills” in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions to their home bases, the Kremlin said. The order appears to go further than a similar statement by the Russian leader two weeks ago that troops were being pulled back from the border to shooting ranges.

The three regions border Ukraine, and the withdrawal of troops deployed there would signal a genuine attempt by Moscow to de-escalate the worst crisis in its relations with the West since the Cold War. It also would be easily verifiable by Western intelligence.

The Kremlin statement didn’t say how many troops would be pulled out or specify how quick the withdrawal would be. NATO has estimated that Russia has 40,000 troops arrayed along the border with Ukraine.

He said that NATO remains open to a political dialogue with Moscow and has proposed holding a meeting at the NATO-Russia Council next week.

A. Clearly we will need a more visible NATO presence all over NATO territory, including our eastern allies. But it is a bit too early to say exactly how such deployments would take place. As you mentioned yourself, it could be on a rotational basis. Right now we are in the phase where we are considering options. The aim is to improve readiness and responsiveness. I would expect the NATO summit [in Wales] in September to take decisions on such long-term measures to reinforce collective defence.

A. It is no secret that eastern allies argue that they need a stronger NATO presence in their territory as a kind of deterrent so that any potential aggressor would not even think of attacking our eastern allies. We are now in the process of considering different options. It is a bit too early to say how or where such reinforcements could take place. Taking into account the new security situation in Europe, we have to adapt. We have to improve our readiness and responsiveness because we have seen Russia being capable to act very quickly.

A. That remains to be seen. We are considering further steps to reinforce collective defence and I hope that all 28 allies will contribute in that respect.

A. We never comment on operational details. I can confirm that we have reinforced our naval presence in the eastern Mediterranean. Further movement will very much depend on the security situation. And you have seen individual allies deploy ships into the Black Sea. So, all in all, you see a greater naval presence in the Black Sea.

A. We haven’t see any evidence of withdrawal of Russian troops from the Ukrainian border. It is now the third statement from Putin and still no withdrawal has taken place. Clear evidence would to be to see Russian troops move in a meaningful way away from the Ukrainian border. Of course we have satellite images and other ways of demonstrating that. If we saw a meaningful withdrawal I would be the first person to welcome it because that would be an important contribution to de-escalating the crisis.

A. What are they doing there is a very good question. They have up to 40,000 troops massed along the Ukrainian border. They are very close to the Ukrainian border. They are at a high level of readiness. If the political decision were taken in the Kremlin to invade eastern Ukraine they would be able to act very quickly. They have a broad range of capabilities that are clearly prepared for an offensive action.

A. Yes, of course, if a substantial part of the 40,000 troops or the 40,000 troops were to withdraw, it would be very visible. I believe the whole purpose of this buildup of strong military forces along the Ukrainian border was to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. It is a multifaceted operation. They sent in secret agents from their secret services. They are trying to stir up the crisis in eastern Ukraine. They give advice to armed pro-Russian separatists. They even provide weapons and help organize violent actions. Due to the massive buildup of troops along Ukraine’s eastern border they try to deter Ukrainian authorities from taking determined actions against the illegal operations by pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine … and create, maybe, a further pretext for intervention. That is an option that they, at least, keep open.

A. Compared to what we saw during the Georgian war, we have seen much more capable Russian forces, more modern, better organized and, first and foremost, ready to act swiftly. They can easily turn their major exercises into an attack if they so decide politically. This is exactly why we have to adapt to the new situation.

A. The illegal Russian military actions in Ukraine are a wake up call. It is a clear demonstration of the fact that we cannot take security and stability for granted in our part of the world. During more than 20 years since the end of the Cold War we have based our military planning on the assumption that Russia does not constitute an imminent threat toward NATO allies. But we have learned in Ukraine that Russia reserves the right to intervene in other countries. That should be a wake up call in all capitals. The fact is that during the past five years Russia has increased its defence spending by 10 per cent per year. At the same time NATO allies have cut their budgets drastically. That must be reversed. Actual events in Ukraine will be the strongest argument in favour of increased defence spending and why defence matters. Events in Ukraine have put a lot of focus on one of NATO’s core tasks, namely the territorial defence of our populations and societies. So, unintentionally, Putin has contributed to strengthening the trans-Atlantic bond. People have now been reminded how important it is. After the Cold War people took our security for granted. We have now learned we cannot take it for granted. We have to stand together and defend our societies in a unified way.

This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity and length.
