
Royal Bank and TD Bank kick off the stream of earnings on Thursday and analysts are expecting another solid if unspectacular quarter.

“With the banks, it’s more of a steady as she goes kind of quarter,” said Colin Cieszynski, senior market analyst at CMC Markets.

Together, the big six banks in Canada — Royal Bank, TD Bank, Scotiabank, CIBC, Bank of Montreal and National Bank — earned a total of $8.49-billion in the first quarter, up from $7.64-billion in the first quarter of 2013.

“We didn’t have an ice storm shutting down things for days so the overall economy should have been relatively decent through that period and I’m expecting just another chug along business as usual kind of quarter for them,” he said.

He also doesn’t expect major moves in dividends after Scotiabank, RBC, TD and CIBC all upped their payouts last time around.

Cieszynski also doesn’t think the earnings will yield another leg up in stock prices for the big banks, all of which are very close to their 52-week highs.

He said the banks look fairly valued and there would need to be “something really positive” for further stock appreciation in the wake of the earnings reports.

The feeling that markets are fairly valued right now is also a big reason why stock markets stalled as the TSX finished last week little changed, down 19 points or 0.13%, while the Dow industrials shed 92 points or 0.6%, leaving the blue chip index below where it started the year.

Buying sentiment was derailed after eurozone growth figures for the first quarter came in well below expectations while retail giant and economic bellwether Wal-Mart Stores delivered a disappointing outlook for the current quarter.

But that data also came during a week in which the S&P 500 index briefly cracked the 1,900 level for the first time.

At the same time, Mills doesn’t think a downturn is in order. In fact, he thinks this current bull cycle can carry on for another year or two.

“Yes we’re due for some kind of a correction,” he said.

Last week’s performance left the Toronto market still ahead 6.57% for the year. But that’s close to where analysts thought the TSX would up end up for the whole year.

“That was our call, for about 7% on the year,” said Mills.

Business Trends, unless noted otherwise, is provided by Market One Media for commercial purposes. Postmedia has no involvement in the creation of this content.

This story was provided by Market One Media for commercial purposes. Postmedia had no involvement in the creation of this content.

This story was provided by Market One Media for commercial purposes. Postmedia had no involvement in the creation of this content.

This story was provided by Market One Media for commercial purposes.

This story was provided by Market One Media for commercial purposes. Postmedia had no involvement in the creation of this content.

Small Cap Investing is provided by SmallCapPower.com for commercial purposes. Postmedia had no involvement in the creation of this content.
