
You offered your business card with one hand? God help you. When friends visited me in Beijing, often the first and most emphatic custom they had acquired in preparation was the solemn two-handed delivery. No surprise; search Amazon today for books on business in China, and the offerings tend to promise to “demystify China,” while doing their best to have the opposite effect. Some other oft-repeated advice: Don’t give a Chinese friend a clock or a watch as a gift because it signifies death. Avoid wearing the color red, because it is reserved for brides.

It’s time to put away the pith helmets. China is more familiar and navigable than ever before. One sign that the old myths are threadbare: The Chinese are giving each other so many gift-watches that it’s a leading market for the Swiss, and the industry has suffered during an ongoing crackdown on corruption. (I wouldn't recommend giving a tabletop clock quite yet because some habits endure.) In China today, people know that foreigners will bear some imprint of their habits. Be polite, sincere, keep an eye out for cues and skip the high-brow Orientalism.

Not much, actually. It is tempting to imagine that Chinese citizens are willing to bear corruption, or heavy-handed stagecraft, because 2,000 years of Confucian influence has seeded a deep reverence for the group—for government, family and country—over the individual.

China stereotypes play out visually as well. As this sampling of book and magazine covers would suggest, you can never have too much red or too many dragons when illustrating China – especially when appealing to ideas of an exotic Asian mystique or fears of a rising superpower.

But Chinese culture is not inert. Today, the inclination toward harmony endures, but it competes against the surging force of individual interests. It is a time when the ties between the world’s two most powerful countries, China and the United States, can be tested by the aspirations of a lone peasant lawyer who chose the day and the hour in which to alter his fate. When the Chinese public bears conditions that seem unbearable, it is driven less by culture than by crushing poverty or the threat of force.

Evan Osnos is a staff writer at The New Yorker and the author of Age of Ambition: Chasing Fortune, Truth, and Faith in the New China (Farrar, Straus, & Giroux), from which this article was adapted.
