
On May 18, 2014, President Xi Jinping held talks with President Almazbek Atambayev of Kyrgyzstan in Shanghai. The two heads of state spoke highly the cooperation achievements made by the two countries in various fields since the establishment of China-Kyrgyzstan strategic partnership. They agreed to join the efforts to deepen the bilateral relations and safeguard the regional peace and stability.

Xi Jinping noted, since we jointly announced the establishment of China-Kyrgyzstan strategic partnership last year, the bilateral cooperation in various fields witnessed a rapid development. In the meantime, the international situation is undergoing some new changes, which has brought some unstable and uncertain factors to the region. It raised new and higher requirements for the development of bilateral relations. The China-Kyrgyzstan cooperation should be strategically situated with a long-term perspective, upholding the principles of friendship, mutual trust, mutual benefit and win-win results.

Xi Jinping expressed, as a trustworthy, reliable and sincere friend of Kyrgyzstan, China will continue to provide help to the economic and social development of Kyrgyzstan within its capacity and encourage Chinese enterprises to expand their investment in Kyrgyzstan. Both sides should focus on implementation of the cooperation projects such as Kyrgyzstan's power transmission and transformation lines, thermal power plants, refineries, natural gas pipelines and exemplary high-yielding planting, should push for an early completion of China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan highway, and should provide financial, transportation and other support and guarantee for bilateral cooperation. Kyrgyzstan constitutes an important part in the construction of the Silk Road Economic Belt. The bilateral cooperation should be connected with this initiative and should push forward the regional connectivity as well as trade and investment facilitation. Both sides should also continue to deepen the cooperation on security and law-enforcement, jointly fighting against the "three evil forces", drug trafficking and transnational organized crimes. The two sides should also strengthen people-to-people and cultural exchanges and keep deepening the good-neighborly friendship between the two peoples.

Xi Jinping stressed, it conforms to the fundamental interests of the Central Asian countries to maintain peace, stability, development and prosperity of the region. China opposes any inference in the internal affairs of Central Asian countries from the external forces. China is willing to intensify the cooperation with Kyrgyzstan within the frameworks of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), to foster the sense of a community of common destiny and common interest, and advocate a concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security in Asia, so as to jointly promote regional peace, stability and development.

Almazbek Atambayev said that China is a reliable neighbor and partner of Kyrgyzstan. Linked by mountains and rivers and common interest, there are no suspending issues in the Kyrgyzstan-China relations. Kyrgyzstan thanks China for its selfless assistance and wishes an early realization of the Chinese Dream of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Kyrgyzstan will firmly support China on issues concerning China's core interests and major concerns. Kyrgyzstan stands ready to strengthen cooperation with the Chinese side on taking precautions against and combating the "three evil forces", which pose severe threats to both China and Kyrgyzstan and Central Asia. Kyrgyzstan is willing to actively participate in the construction of the Silk Road Economic Belt and promote bilateral exchanges in economy and trade, infrastructure connectivity and people-to-people and cultural engagement.

Almazbek Atambayev expressed that Asian affairs should be handled by the Asian countries themselves. As a country cherishes its national stability, Kyrgyzstan is willing to work with China to make full use of the CICA platform to safeguard regional peace and tranquility.

The two heads of state jointly signed the Joint Declaration on Further Deepening Strategic Partnership Between the People's Republic of China and Kyrgyz Republic, and witnessed together the signing of cooperative documents covering law-enforcement and infrastructure construction and other fields.

Prior to the talks, Xi Jinping held a welcoming ceremony for Almazbek Atambayev at the square of Xijiao State Guest Hotel Conference Center in Shanghai.

Xi Jinping's wife Mme. Peng Liyuan, Wang Huning, Li Zhanshu, Han Zheng, Yang Jiechi and others were present at the above events.
