
Welcome!

Fast-food chains McDonald's (NYSE: MCD     )  and Yum! Brands (NYSE: YUM     )  have recently faced their share of difficulties, ranging from declining customer traffic domestically to the avian flu scare in China. This information may leave you wondering whether or not these companies still have any life left in them. Let's take a look under the proverbial hood at their financials to see if these companies stand on solid footing and if they still deserve a spot in your portfolio.

McDonald's and its franchisees operated 35,000 restaurants globally as of the most recent quarter. McDonald's continues to struggle in getting customers through the door in the U.S. In the most recent quarter, the company saw its same-store sales decline 1.7% domesticall, serving as a drag on overall same-store sale, which only expanded 0.5%.

McDonald's $2.7 billion in cash equated to 17% of stockholder's equity last quarter. Its long-term debt-to-equity ratio stood at 86% versus 88% at the same time in 2013. Investors should look for companies with long-term debt-to-equity ratios of less than 50%. Companies with a great deal of debt may find their profitability hindered by interest expense.

However, McDonald's operating income exceeded interest expense by a comfortable 14 times. The rule of thumb for safety is five times. The company pays a generous dividend and has increased its dividend steadily since 1977. In the most recent quarter, McDonald's paid out 57% of its free cash flow in dividends and currently pays its shareholders 3.1% annually.

Yum! Brands and its franchisees operate well over 40,000 restaurants globally. Yum! Brands seems to be moving beyond the avian flu scare that occurred in China over a year ago. In fact, in China, Yum! Brands increased reported revenue and operating income of 20% and 69%, respectively, in the most recent quarter.

Yum! Brands introduced 15 new products to its KFC menu in China and expanded Pizza Hut's home delivery service in the country. Yum! Brands also saw revenue gains of 13% in India. However, its loss widened 20% during that time due to macroeconomic conditions.

Yum! Brands' China and India divisions brought its overall fundamentals into positive territory in the most recent quarter. With that said, Yum! increased consolidated revenue, net income, and free cash flow 7%, 18%, and 143%, respectively. Operating income gains in its China division contributed to net income gains. Lower capital expenditures contributed to the free cash flow expansion.

Yum! Brands possess a highly leveraged balance sheet. Its long-term debt-to-equity ratio comes in at a high 126%, which is less than the 131% it registered the same time last year. However, its operating income exceeded interest expense by 17 times. Yum! Brands' $734 million in cash equates to 31% of stockholder's equity. In the most recent quarter, the company paid out 41% of its free cash flow in dividends.Currently, Yum! Brands pays shareholders $1.48 per share per year, translating into a yield of 1.9%.

Both McDonald's and Yum! Brands still belong in your portfolio. They both show plenty of expansion potential in the Chinese markets, as evidenced by the apparent rise of the "consuming class" in the country.

Moreover, both companies also need to address challenges on the domestic front. Yum! Brands recently demonstrated superior ability on this front with new breakfast innovations at Taco Bell and the announcement that Taco Bell's CEO Greg Creed  will take the top job as Yum! Brands' CEO on Jan. 1, 2015. Duplicating Taco Bell's media savvy in other Yum! Brands divisions can only enhance Yum! Brands' potential for capital gains and dividend boosts. By contrast, McDonald's only notable marketing campaign consisted of free coffee for a short time.

The smartest investors know that dividend stocks like McDonald's and Yum! Brands simply crush their non-dividend-paying counterparts over the long term. That's beyond dispute. They also know that a well-constructed dividend portfolio creates wealth steadily, while still allowing you to sleep like a baby. Knowing how valuable such a portfolio might be, our top analysts put together a report on a group of high-yielding stocks  that should be in any income investor's portfolio. To see our free report on these stocks, just  click here now .

William Bias owns shares of McDonald's. The Motley Fool recommends McDonald's. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Be the first one to comment on this article.

Your Fool username will be displayed with your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
