
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday said that seeking political solutions is the right path to address the world's hotspot issues.

Xi met with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon as part of the events leading up to the fourth summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA).

"Display of power and pressure and the use of external force are not acceptable," Xi said.

Describing the hotspot issues that have emerged globally, he said that "just when you press the gourd into the water, there floats the gourd ladle," referring to a traditional Chinese saying that means "tackling one problem only to find another emerging."

The Chinese president said the international community should adhere to political solutions in all conflicts, adding that the UN should "uphold the banner" in this regard.

Xi urged adherence to the goal of common development, calling on the UN to play its political and coordinating role.

The UN should formulate its post-2015 Development Agenda with poverty eradication as its core to achieve sustainable growth, he said. Xi also said that China wishes success for the UN Climate Summit in September.

"The UN should play a leading role in international affairs," he said. "Regarding the fight against terrorism, the UN should play a bigger role by promoting clear-cut criteria of right and wrong so as to advance the international community in battling terrorism."

Xi also raised the issue of cyber security during the meeting.

"The UN should advocate rules, sovereignty and transparency in this regard and respect the concerns of different countries over information safety," he said, adding that China will firmly support the work of the UN in cyber security.

The year 2015 marks the 70th anniversary of the victory of the World Anti-fascist War and the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression. It also marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the UN.

"The international community should avail itself of this important opportunity to reiterate the commitment to multilateralism, safeguard the principles set forth in the UN Charter and commit to strengthening the role of the UN," Xi said.

Ban said he appreciates China's firm commitment to multilateralism and the country's active participation in UN affairs.

He said that facts had proved that China has been a strong partner with the UN.

The CICA summit, which will give a vigorous boost to the mutual trust and coordination among Asian countries, will effectively address security threats and challenges, the UN chief said.

The CICA summit is slated to be held in Shanghai on Tuesday and Wednesday.

This is the fourth meeting between Xi and Ban since the Chinese president took office last year.

CRIENGLISH.com claims the copyright of all material and information produced        originally by our staff.
