
My first trip outside Namibia was to China. During the 19-hour flight from Windhoek ‑ via South Africa ‑ to Beijing, I was paging through General Review of China magazine.

Reading through the magazine made me so impatient to reach my destination so that I could visit historical places like the Forbidden City, the Great Wall of China and the Great Hall of the People, the Bird's Nest Stadium, China's subway and the Temple of Heaven.

I was in China as part of a media seminar that was organised by the Namibian Ministry of Information and Communication Technology and China’s Research and Training Institute of State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television.

We were a team of around 30 media practitioners, mostly from public media institutions.

It was a life-changing experience. I still cannot stop admiring the kind of infrastructure China has such as those intertwined highways, railways lines and culture ‑ their unique way of doing things.

But what amazed me most is the population. The city of Beijing, the capital of China ‑ is apparently home to over 20 million residents!

During our three-week sojourn in China, we visited some of the world renowned tourist attractions.

The first visit was to the Forbidden City. The Forbidden City, known before as the Imperial Palace situated in the heart of Beijing, is the largest and most complete imperial palace and ancient building complex in China.

According to the history of China, construction of the Forbidden City began in 1406 and took 14 years to complete.

Twenty-four emperors from the Ming and Qing dynasties lived and ruled China from there.

It is an incredible place but my keen eyes could not take everything in, as there were just too many visitors.

Most of the structures are built from wood, roofed with yellow glazed tiles and built on blue-and-white stone foundations, which made it look solemn and brilliant.

The city walls were 10m high, and a 52m-wide moat surrounds the Forbidden City. Three-storey towers are placed at each corner of the wall.

Later, our guide, Yao Yuan, explained to us that the Great Wall was first built in the 7BC when China was still divided into many small states.

After the unification of China in 221BC, the first emperor of Qin Dynasty (you must have heard of his terracotta army) linked the walls of the three states in the north and formed the first Wan Li Chang Cheng.

Since then, the Great Wall was rebuilt, modified or extended throughout Chinese history for over 2 000 years.

Most of the Great Wall we see today was built in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644), according to our guide. In some areas, two walls built in two different dynasties can be seen running side by side.

But, let me take you through what impressed me the most. Things like Chinese food, China’s World heritage sites, the festival, the Kung Fu and Beijing opera.

When we got there, we were showered with lots and lots of food. Apparently China has this “guest rule”, which means any guest will be showered with fruits, food, gifts and you cannot refuse.

Yuan, whom we called Paul (Yuan means Paul in English), noted that the cost of living in China is very low compared to European standards in terms of food and transport such as taxi and fast trains.

However, surprisingly branded clothes such as Adidas, etc, are very expensive.

The funny moments came during meal times. Not that we were looking out of place, but it is the way the Chinese were regarding us in restaurants. Paul later explained that it was not because they were rude or hated Africans but it was out of curiosity.

Probably, they wanted to give weight to the general belief in China that non-Asians simply cannot use chopsticks. According to Paul, people will be impressed if you can, but if you cannot, at least try to use them and experience the culture.

When it comes to public transport, I learnt that when you are in China and planning on using a taxi, rather use one from a big company because unmarked taxis or “black taxis”, as they are called there, will often not have a meter and will charge ridiculous fares for foreigners.

And when you are out shopping at Chinese markets, do not expect items in the shop or stall to have a price tag. Just like at Chinatown in Windhoek’s northern industry, prices are settled through bartering.

If you are a foreigner, people believe that you are wealthy (which is a reasonable assumption since you are likely to have a lot of money on holiday), the shopkeeper will quote you a ridiculous price.

If you are savvy enough, you can bargain and get an item for a ridiculously low price. But at big chain stores, all goods are properly tagged – so there is no way you can bargain yourself out of any amount or be cheated out of your meagre S&T (subsistence and travel allowance).

Be careful if you want to try any street food. With a lot of stalls, there won’t be a problem but some are not very hygienic and the food might make you ill and ruin a good portion of your trip to China.

Public toilets in China are squat toilets, which means that there is no seat you have to squat over a hole in the floor (sounds disgusting but most public toilets are), however, hotels and apartments have toilet seats.

Some useful phrases are “bu yao” (No, I don’t want it), “xie xie” (thank you) and “mei shi” (I’m ok). In China, if you are a guest these can be very useful, as being a host is very important. As a guest, you will frequently be offered food and asked if you are okay.
