
Asian stocks fell, led by Chinese shares after weaker home-price data added to concern that the economy’s slowdown will deepen. The ringgit strengthened after Malaysia’s economy grew faster than economists estimated while wheat fell and nickel led gains in industrial metals.

The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent by 1:26 p.m. in Tokyo, with a measure of Chinese companies in Hong Kong slumping as much as 1.4 percent and Shanghai shares retreating. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were little changed. The ringgit climbed 0.5 percent after data on May 16 showed the economy expanded at the fastest pace in five quarters. Wheat headed for its longest losing streak since 1998, while corn dropped 0.9 percent. Nickel rose 2.1 percent and copper touched its highest price since March.

China’s home prices rose in the fewest cities in 1 1/2 years in April, according to data issued yesterday, while the central bank ordered banks to curb interbank lending as it seeks reduce so-called shadow banking. The government is evacuating citizens from Vietnam after violent protests and damage to factories there, China’s official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday. Clashes continued in Ukraine’s east between government forces and pro-Russian rebels who have declared an independent state.

Stuart McPhee has nearly 20 years’ experience as a private trader and he specializes in technical market analysis of major currency pairs. He is the author of several bestselling trading books, most recently the fourth edition of his popular book “Trading in a Nutshell” (John Wiley), and he contributes articles to daily newsletters and blogs. He produces articles and videos on the how-tos of technical trading.  Living in Melbourne, Australia, Stuart speaks at conferences and events worldwide.

MarketPulse is a forex, commodities, and global indices research, analysis, and forex news site providing timely and accurate information on major economic trends, technical analysis, and worldwide events that impact different asset classes and investors.

This article is for general information purposes only. It is not investment advice or a solution to buy or sell securities.

Opinions are the authors — not necessarily OANDA’s, its officers or directors. OANDA’s Terms of Use and Privacy Policy apply. Leveraged trading is high risk and not suitable for all. You could lose all of your deposited funds.

© 1996 - 2013 OANDA Corporation. All rights reserved. All Registered Trade Marks used on this Website, whether marked as Trade Marks or not marked, are declared to belong to their respective owner(s). OANDA Corporation owns Trade Marks of all its "FX" products.
