
We are delighted to announce that the London Bullion Market Association has accredited MMTC-PAMP India Pvt. Ltd, as a Good Delivery Gold Refiner, with effect from 16th May 2014. MMTC-PAMP India Pvt. Ltd. is a joint venture between PAMP SA Switzerland and MMTC Limited, a Government of India Undertaking.

This certification follows the accreditation of the Company in 2013 by the London Bullion Market Association as a Good Delivery Silver Refiner.

LBMA Good Delivery accreditation has become an internationally accepted quality standard, guaranteeing that bars produced meet the stringent requirements outlined in the "LBMA Good Delivery List". Good Delivery Rules for Gold and Silver Bars include specific requirements for the fineness, weight, dimensions, appearance, marks, and production of bars. It specifies procedures for weighing, packing and delivery.

Coming barely a few weeks after MMTC-PAMP was awarded ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications by QS Zürich AG, a world-renowned certification body, the company has once again demonstrated the high quality of its gold and silver bars.

MMTC-PAMP is honoured to receive this accolade, and become the first ever Indian Good Delivery Refiner for both Gold and Silver.

In 2008 MMTC joined hands with PAMP for setting up a precious metals refinery and mint in Mewat district of Haryana. With an investment of over Rs 2,200 million and annual refining capacity of 100 tons of gold, 600 tons of silver and minting 2.75 million pieces, India is now home to the world's most modern precious metals refining and manufacturing plant, equipped with state-of-the-art technology throughout all production processes, as well as with the most advanced environmental infrastructure and safeguards that meet the most stringent regulatory standards.

MMTC-PAMP India produces a wide range of products that are on par with or better than products from any foreign manufacturer, thereby providing the consumer in India and beyond with the finest quality products created with complete transparency and assurance. Today, the market has a distinct preference for its product range, the quality of which is fast becoming the de-facto benchmark in the Indian market.

The license for minting the Sovereign for The Royal Mint UK is yet another feather to the cap of MMTC-PAMP India.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
