
Belle Fourche High School Principal Mathew Raba noted that the Class of 2014 had billed itself as "The Unforgettable Class" as soon as the students first appeared as freshmen.

Saturday they left the Ed Petranek Armory gym at BFHS as graduates.

Ten of fewer than 80 in the class earned grade point averages over 4.0. As a group they earned more than $400,000 in scholarships recorded in the school offices.

The class included young men and women who were among academic all-state athletes - meaning they were recognized by the state high school activities association as exceptional athletes who also are exceptional high school scholars.

Awards for the seniors already had been presented Thursday evening at informal ceremonies - and the scholarship numbers announced at the time were not all the post-high school education scholarships received by the seniors.

Emily Stambaugh presented her valedictorian speech and Jake Voorhis his salutatorian address.

The class followed school tradition in offering foreign exchange students their own personal American flags in BFHS-produced wooden and glass cases - each touched by every one of their graduating classmates.

Foreign students included David Rincke of Germany, Rosalie Schilling of Germany, Herman Hvidsten of Norway and Judith Schmutz of Switzerland.

Diplomas were presented by school board President Tammy Clem with one exception.

Superintendent Steve Willard presented both a diploma and a hug to his daughter Kassie.

She was one of more than a dozen graduates recognized as honor graduates, state Regent's Scholars and National Honor Society members.

Also on the program were Levi Grubb, senior class president, who welcomed the gathering for the graduation ceremonies, the school band and choir.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
