
1900 to 1910 was a decade when some of the people in the news were Sigmond      Freud, Frank Lloyd Wright, Albert Einstein, Commander Perry, Henry Ford and      the Wright Brothers. U. S. presidents were William McKinley, Theodore      Roosevelt and William Howard Taft.

Chesterton and Porter were small railroad towns with many first generation      immigrants from Sweden, Germany, Ireland and Poland. At the start of the new      century there was telephone service but no electric lines. Streets were not      paved and most homes had outhouses.

Railroads were the EJ&E, the Lakeshore & Michigan Southern and Michigan      Central. Factories operating in 1900 were Chicago Hydraulic Pressed Brick      Company, Hillstrom Organ Factory and Warren Featherbone Factory.

At the May meeting of the Duneland Historical Society, Eva Hopkins and Nancy      Hokanson told the story of that long ago decade year by year. Eva told of      happenings in Chesterton and Nancy did the same for Porter. They used      historical photographs of schools, churches, businesses, prominent citizens,      neighborhoods and disasters to help tell the story.

Chesterton had incorporated in 1899 and Joseph Stephens was named the first      town marshal. Chesterton got its first gravel road after the gravel road      proposal passed. Augsburg Swedish Lutheran built a new building. Dentist Dr.      Harry Ruge came to town.

Five hundred people attended the funeral for Dr. Hiram Greene. The Glass      Works started up at Broadway and 11th St. Dr. Charles Wiltfong came to town.      Peter and Victor Hokanson opened a meat market in Porter. Fifty train car      loads of sand from the dunes were shipped to Chicago each day to be used as      fill for the elevated street car lines.

A fire on the east side of Valparaiso Street (now Calumet Road) destroyed      several businesses including the post office. Chesterton Fire Department      organized. St. Patrick School was built at Broadway and 3rd St. A livery      barn and two houses burned in Porter.

Chesterton Town Hall and Fire Station building was dedicated. Rural mail      delivery was offered to residents who could read and write and who were in      the habit of receiving mail. Charles Nickel was the first plumber in      Chesterton. Featherbone Factory was employing 170 workers, many of them      women. The company made corset stays out of turkey feather bones.

moved into its new building on Valparaiso Street      (Calumet Road). A bakery operated in the basement. Chicago Hydraulic Pressed      Brick Company was extensively damaged by fire. Dick Sabinski started      commercial fishing at what is now Porter Beach. Reid Murdock pickle factory      opened.

Portage Home Telephone opened an exchange. This was in addition to the      Chesterton Telephone Company. The services were not interchangeable.      Attorney G. R. Williams bought the first automobile in town. He and Eddie      Johnson went to Chicago to drive the auto home. Four miles from Crocker it      quit and they had to walk home. The Swedish Methodist Church built a new      brick building. The Lakeshore and Michigan Southern Railroad began commuter      service to Chicago. The Featherbone Factory closed and Sal Mountain Asbestos      Factory opened in the same location. Art Nickel moved his drug store to 3rd      and Broadway.

An immigrant train wrecked at Woodville and killed 88 people. Many unknown      Polish immigrants were buried in St. Patrick Cemetery. South Shore Railroad      was under construction north of town. The city of Gary started. Joseph      Ameling built a saw mill on the banks of Coffee Creek.

Houses were built in Morgan Park, the first addition to Chesterton, and 500      Schwedler maple trees were planted. Silent moving pictures were shown in      Moroney Hall. Chesterton Home Water Company was formed.

The first Johnson Inn was built at Waverly Beach. Commercial fishermen would      send barrel loads of fish to Chicago daily. John C. Dille and Bennett Morgan      started a hardware business. Porter Riverside Land Company was organized.      The company developed and sold lots until 1934.

The town of Porter incorporated and Emil Busse was the first town marshal.      The 3-story Central House which had been moved from City West by David      Hopkins burned down. H. F. Carlson began his grocery business on Valparaiso      Street (Calumet Road). The new Lyric Theater started on Valparaiso Street      (building now Flannery’s). South Shore trains began running.

Twelve people were killed in the wreck of a South Shore train at Shadyside      (near Burns Harbor). The first spike was driven for the interurban which      later ran to Valparaiso. The first electrical meter in Chesterton was      installed in Friday Hall by Carl Harvil. Arc street lights in Chesterton      were turned on at midnight on December 31, 1909.

Art Nickel took over the drug store previously run by Charles L. Jones in      Porter.
