
Operating out of a tower block in Shanghai, Unit 61398 allegedly hacks Western    companies in support of the Chinese government's political and economic aims.

The hacking charges brought by the US today were levelled against five members of Unit 61398, a shadowy division    of the Chinese military allegedly responsible for waves of cyber attacks    against Western businesses.

Based out of a 12-storey building in the outskirts of Shanghai, Unit 61398 is    believed to be staffed by thousands of Chinese "cyber-troops"    acting on the direct orders of the People's Liberation Army.

Its personnel are highly trained in computer networking but must also be    proficient in English as most of its targets are in the US, according to    Mandiant, an American cybersecurity firm.

Unit 61398 is believed to have begun operations in 2006 and since then has    allegedly hacked into the networks of more than 140 western firms in pursuit    of corporate secrets.

While countries across the world are developing cyber capabilities, China is    unique in that it uses its military to gain commercial advantages over    foreign competitors, said Jen Weedon, threat intelligence manager at    FireEye, an American cybersecurity firm.

"What makes Unit 61398 stand out is that it is operating under government    orders but carrying out espionage for corporate reasons," she said.

Its hacking is allegedly carried out in support of broader Chinese government    political and economic strategic initiatives. For example, at the same time    China began investing in bio-pharmaceutical technology, Unit 61398    reportedly began targeting US bio-pharmaceutical companies to try to steal    their technology.

"While the men and women of our American businesses spent their business    days innovating...these members of Unit 61398 were spending their business    days in Shanghai stealing the fruits of our labour," said John Carlin,    assistant US attorney general for national security.

China has consistently denied that Unit 61398 carries out hacking, calling the    allegations "irresponsible and unprofessional".

The five men charged by US prosecutors - Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu,    Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui - are all described as "officers" but    are believed to be low-level figures rather than senior commanders.

The unit's leader remains unknown, although it is believed to be part of the    General Staff Department, the Chinese equivalent of the US joint chiefs of    staff, America's top military council.

The 56-page    indictment offers remarkable detail about the alleged hackers'    methods. For example, it describes how Wang used the alias "UglyGorilla"    to register domains that would later be used in hacking attacks on American    steel and nuclear companies.

All five men are said to be based in a tower block on Datong Road in    Gaoqiaozhen, a residential neighbourhood around 40 minutes outside of    central Shanghai.

The building is not identified as a military facility but uniformed soldiers    guard its entrance and a compound for troops' families next door is    emblazoned with a propaganda plaque reading: "Be faithful and loyal to    the Party. Love the people. Dedicate yourself to the cause."

The scale of Unit's 61398's extensive hacking operations were made possible by    special fibre optic lines given to the Chinese military by the state-owned    China Telecom firm "in the name of the national defence",    according to Mandiant.

President Barack Obama has promised to take a firmer stand against Chinese    hacking and raised the issue with Xi Jinping, the Chinese president.
