
On International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia, minority groups united to celebrate diversity — and call on government to protect sexual freedom.

Politicians, student leaders, gay and minority rights activists joined thousands from the wider public to march in the capital Saturday on the country’s annual Equality March for equal gender rights and sexual freedom.

According to the Movement for Integration and Homesexual Freedom (Movilh), up to 50,000 people gathered outside the European Embassy and marched on to Plaza Italia on May 17, the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia.

European ambassador Rafael Dochao — who worked with Movilh in organizing the march — said the day celebrates the progress already obtained in Chile toward equality, though also draws attention to the long road ahead.

“But on the other hand, this day calls for reflection. Today, in the midst of the 21st century, your sexual orientation or gender identity can still be the reason for some to have their human rights violated, ranging from discrimination to extreme forms of violence like torture and even death. This is completely unacceptable,” he said.

Just last month, a 21-year-old gay man died from injuries six months after he was brutally attacked, allegedly because of his sexual orientation.

Secretary General Álvaro Elizalde was among the high profile figures at the march, accompanied by his family.

Socialist Party (PS) Dep. Maya Fernández Allende said she was marching against discrimination and for a more equal society.

“Chile is in a position in which it has never been before, to progress in policies against discrimination. LGBTQ families can’t be left alone. Together, with other congress members, we reaffirm our commitment toward same-sex civil unions, a gender identity law and the enforcement of the anti discrimination law,” she said.

Former student leader and current Communist Party (PC) Dep. Camila Vallejo said both the fight against inciting hate and the move toward combatting hate should begin in education.

Democratic Revolution (RD) Dep. Giorgio Jackson, who led student protests in 2011 alongside Vallejo, also marched Saturday.

“The question isn’t whether or not there will be a gay marriage or gender equality anymore — the question is when,” Jackson said.

Three-times elected Lamoa councillor for the Socialist Party (PS) Alejandra González — Latin America’s first transsexual in a representative position — said she was proud to represent Chile’s transsexual community.
