
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I have been a business journalist for the past 10 years working for various news outlets from Asia and New York. Previously, I was an award-winning automobiles reporter at Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post, where I traveled across China to attend auto shows and interviewed executives of automakers. When I was getting my master's at New York University, I was the correspondent at the online media E&E Publishing that is based in Washington DC. I covered news from China's dilemma to move away from coal to its shale gas hunt. In the period, I was also the US markets reporter at the Financial Times in New York.

In order to drive up the popularity of the Model S, Musk and his sales team have thus far been targeting the rich to be Tesla’s first batch of customers . And selling their cars to these early adopters with deep pockets who want to be the first to show off their hi-tech toys looks like a smart move.

But eventually the mass market should be the key objective, and practical concerns appear to weigh heavily on the minds of many Chinese drivers. It seems that a great deal of work still needs to be done before many Chinese families would commit to buying a new technology car.

Putting aside Musk’s aspiration to put new technology into practice, perhaps some sort of marketing research to test the trend could be a useful indicator.

Last Friday, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers issued a press release  announcing the launch of a new energy car promotion center in Beijing. The mission of the center is to exhibit the history of pure electric cars and explain the country’s preferential policies, as well as the distribution of recharging stations.

Curbing Cars : America’s Independence From The Auto Industry investigates why a growing number of Americans are giving up their cars. This illuminating account of our changing automotive habits is available now for download.

Although the announcement itself was nothing exciting, it hints at something more interesting that comes up if you talk to ordinary drivers. By chance, I chatted with a friend who works in the automobile industry in Guangzhou, surnamed Liu, about the general acceptability of pure electric cars in China now. The first word he threw to me is “trouble.” He added, “Many Chinese think like that.” Regardless of the price of these cars, there are still a lot of pragmatic questions that have yet to be answered, he said.

From recharging to durability to safety, carmakers have not yet provided much information on how to drive a pure electric car (be it a model from BYD BYD or Tesla) like driving Toyota’s Corolla, Ford’s Focus or General Motor’s Buick.

No one knows how long the transformation from petrol-engine cars to pure electric wheelers will eventually take place, but if the transition from pickup trucks to small family cars is any indication – we could be looking at about 20 years for the same dynamics to unfold.

Liu, whose family just welcomed a baby girl, is a holiday driver. Driving his own car for work would only consume most of his commute time to sit in traffic. He said buying a pure electric car is not even a topic among his circle of friends. For ordinary car-owners, it boils down to practicality.

Liu explained that whenever he or his friends think of the new technology that might expose them to some unresolved issues or hang-ups, they will immediately drop the idea out of hand no matter how appealing the underlying technology may be.

Since Musk or Tesla started to garner so much attention from the Chinese media, many Chinese are like bystanders waiting to see if this American car firm can eventually succeed. But before that happens, innovators like Musk and his team may find that overcoming ordinary consumers’ resistance will be a lot harder than building a few more charging stations.

Pure Electrical cars is so environmental for human beings. As writer says, car makers don’t consider some “troubles”, for writer involved whether I couldn’t think this factor.So I want say, tech and transports have changed a lot, and in this regard, we are not only thinking how to make tech or car progress but considering safety about consumers.

This sort of thinking is not limited to China, of course. Most people in the U.S. have not even heard of Tesla, I’d wager. But with sustainability concerns ramping up (here), more and more people will be open to these sorts of vehicles as they evolve. But this: “Liu explained that whenever he or his friends think of the new technology that might expose them to some unresolved issues or hang-ups, they will immediately drop the idea out of hand no matter how appealing the underlying technology may be.” Well, if this guy and his friends think this way, statistically all of China must think that way too! You said “many” Chinese a few times but did nothing to make the term sensible in context here.

Hi Tony Moore – A good point. Well, I don’t have any figures in my hands now to quantify that “many”. I’m not quite aware if there’s any marketing firms doing this kind of research too at the moment. But do let me know if there’s any source to get that – no matter for just the Chinese market or a broader coverage. Liu is a person who I quoted in the story as he gave me some good and representative quotes. But he and his friends around is some sort of barometer to see the general attitude of Chinese toward pure electric cars. Somehow I also talked to consulting firms in China about what they know from the general public regarding to new technology cars. And the answer is more on practicality, like what I’ve pointed out in the post. One thing that I got to highlight is that safety is a particular concern for many Chinese. The reason is that BYD didn’t do a great job on that a few years back. There were some battery explosion reports about BYD’s cars. If I’m not mistaken, safety shouldn’t be that a priority worry of Americans. But they probably would focus on durability, functionality and price.

I hope you’re right about Americans focusing on “durability, functionality and price.” Tesla’s cars have two out of three right now, and the price angle will be addressed with some cars rolling out soon(ish). Thanks for the thoughtful response, Kandy.

Tesla guided for 35k unit sales this year.

By 2016 Tesla hopes to sell 20k Model S and 20k Model X in China.

Chinese population 1.3-1.5 Billion.

Tesla makes premium electric vehicles.

They care about the wealthiest 100 million consumers.

Tesla may care about the average Chinese consumer in 20 years when they have the capacity and economies of scale to sell them a car.

In 2020 I think Tesla will sell 20k Model S,20k Model X, 80k Gen3 Sedan, and 80k Gen3 SUV without ANY problem what so ever.

Your article is so full of misconceptions and half truths it hurts my brain just reading it.

Tesla literally just delivered their first cars in the last 30 days, you are being completely unreasonable.

I will be honest and say that I only skimmed the rest of this trash piece, but I can say that besides spouting your opinionated half truths, you also managed to utterly miss the point. In reality people care about what the car costs, how long its range is, if its green, how fast you can “fill it up,” what it costs to “fill it up,” how well it handles etc, not what kind of power train it happens to be. When you ask them “do you like electric cars?” what they are really responding to is “do you care enough about the environment to give up long range and a lot of other convenience in your car?” And most people don’t care enough. In all other markets where Tesla has gone, people have completely changed their perception of what an electric car can be after experiencing the model S.

Spoom Woods – The pure electric cars would be affordable if the cars can hit the mass market eventually.

They’re already affordable. Factor in the savings on fuel and maintenance, and a Nissan Leaf is one of the most economical choices available.
