
China's Communist authorities ban their own people from accessing major  global social media sites including Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and more.  But when it comes to self-promotion they are increasingly keen users  themselves.

The official news agency Xinhua, the Communist Party's  official mouthpiece the People's Daily, and state broadcaster CCTV all  have Twitter accounts, as do a host of city and provincial authorities.

When  the city of Hangzhou, renowned for its lakes and canals, looked to  raise its international profile it turned to Facebook, the world's  most-popular social network.

China's Internet users, who now number 618 million, have been blocked from using it since 2009.

But  the city's "Modern Marco Polo" competition akin to Australia's "best  job in the world" contests involves no fewer than six Facebook apps.

The  winner, to be announced Tuesday, will receive 40,000 euros ($55,000)  and a two-week trip to Hangzhou, in exchange for promoting the city on  Facebook and Twitter for a year.

Michael Cavanaugh, a consultant  for British-based PR Agency One, which has been promoting the contest,  told AFP increasing official use of such sites was "inevitable". But he  declined to say how the winner was expected to post to them from within  China.

China's Communist  authorities maintain a tight grip on expression both on- and off-line  fearful of any dissent that could spiral into a challenge to one-party  rule.

Some Chinese Internet users and businesses use VPNs, or  virtual private networks, to bypass the vast censorship apparatus known  as the Great Firewall, and state-run media often use foreign bureaux to  accomplish the same goal.

Hangzhou itself used a digital agency in  Hong Kong, where Facebook is not blocked, to administer its contest an  increasing trend by cities and provinces within China's borders.

The social media giant is actively seeking business in the country.

"We  want to help tourism agencies in China tell the rest of the world about  the fabulous things in China that are really not that well-understood,"  Vaughan Smith, Facebook's vice president of corporate development, told  a Beijing audience last month.

Facebook is reportedly in talks to  open a sales office in the Chinese capital, and in recent weeks the  company has quietly posted Beijing-based job openings on its website,  including one for a client solutions manager to "focus on planning,  implementing, and optimising advertising campaign spending for the  world's top-tier advertisers".

Its executives are making  increasingly frequent appearances at high-profile events in China, and  the company's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg drew international  headlines last September when she met the head of China's State Council  Information Office, which oversees propaganda efforts.

Google also seeks advertisers in China and has three offices on the mainland,  but pulled out its servers in 2010 in a row about censorship.

Twitter ,  which is a prominent advocate for free speech online, has shown few  signs of interest in setting up in China, although the company's CEO  Dick Costolo met Shanghai government officials during his first China  visit in March.

Facebook representatives declined interview requests about the company's China business.

Duncan  Clark, chairman of Beijing-based tech consultancy BDA, said Chinese  local authorities had huge budgets and their tourism advertisements were  probably lucrative for the multi-billion-dollar firm.

However, Facebook was unlikely to see them as a way of gaining access to Chinese users, Clark said.

"There's  kind of a common-sense, logical middle ground where Facebook and China  will agree to trade with each other," he told AFP. "This is business  sense. I wouldn't expect that to change."

Netizens: 'discriminatory'

Other  promotions include the "Rebirth of the Terracotta Warrior" Facebook  contest launched last month by Shaanxi province, home to the tomb of  China's first emperor Qin Shihuang.

A "Chengdu Pambassador"  campaign gave contestants a chance to become a "guest panda keeper" at  the southwestern city's giant panda base through a series of Facebook  activities.

But critics of Chinese censorship say such schemes give Beijing a soft-power boost through sleight-of-hand.

A  co-founder of anti-censorship website GreatFire.org who uses the  pseudonym Charlie Smith told AFP: "I think the average Western netizen  doesn't put two and two together and realise actually, these websites  are blocked in China.

"That helps China, for sure, because it  gives this impression that Facebook is actually open and free for the  people who don't know that it isn't," he added.

The double standards have not escaped the notice of Chinese web users.

The  Shaanxi provincial government announced the opening of its tourist  board's Facebook, YouTube and Twitter accounts in a posting on Weibo a  Chinese version of Twitter in February.

Several users angrily responded that they were unable to open the links, the Southern Metropolis Daily reported.

"We're  not advocating that domestic tourists visit these pages," a provincial  government representative told the paper, drawing even greater fury.

"This  way of thinking is discriminatory against Chinese people," wrote one  online commentator. "It shows a lack of understanding of the basic rules  of tourism promotion. It's very stupid and quite laughable."
