
The wave of anti-China sentiment sweeping through Vietnam in the wake of Beijing’s decision to move an oil rig into disputed waters in the South China Sea has assumed serious proportions with angry mobs targeting Chinese nationals and businesses located on Vietnamese soil.

Even as the Chinese government has begun evacuating its nationals by air and sea, hundreds of terrified Chinese have crossed the border into Cambodia.

The Vietnam government must act swiftly to halt the violence. Its anger with China is understandable; the violence is not.

Nothing can justify the targeting of innocent people especially when they have little to do with the controversial decisions of their home governments.

That said, China’s recent move into disputed waters near Vietnam was a needless provocation. There is a lesson in this for the Chinese government.

Its muscular moves to assert its sovereignty over disputed land or contested waters may impress hardliners and hawks at home and even trigger fear among its neighbours but this strategy is not without its costs.

It is making Chinese nationals living in neighbouring countries vulnerable to retaliatory violence.

It isn’t just Chinese nationals and interests abroad that are caught in the crossfire when bilateral tensions surge over territorial disputes.

Anti-Japanese protests broke out in China in 2012 when Sino-Japanese tensions surged over competing territorial claims in the East China Sea.

Chinese protestors vandalised Japanese shops and destroyed Japanese-made cars and it was several days before Chinese authorities acted to halt the violence.

Asian governments need to realize that territorial and other disputes need to be resolved at the negotiating table.

Unilateral attempts to impose a solution or redraw a boundary are being met with retaliatory rioting. Nationalism is bordering on xenophobia.

While Vietnam must take steps to rein in the rioters, China must pull back from the disputed waters. Diplomacy not muscle-flexing is the way to deal with contentious issues.

Simultaneously, China should change the way it does business in other countries. Rarely do its companies hire locals, preferring to bring in Chinese labour to work in the factories and infrastructure projects.

Not surprisingly, this causes local resentment – an important reason for simmering anti-Chinese sentiment in Vietnam, Myanmar and several African countries like Zambia.

Interestingly, the non-Chinese businesses that were targeted last week did not hire locals as well. It carries a lesson for countries like India that are investing abroad increasingly.
