
A New York man has filed a lawsuit demanding what is believed to be the largest amount of compensation ever after he was bitten by a dog.

Anton Purisima, 62, is suing a long list of defendants including the City of New York, Au Bon Pain and Kmart, for $2,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.

Purisima filed his hand-written lawsuit in a Manhattan federal court on April 11 and is representing himself, reports Lowering The Bar.

Over the course of his 22-page lawsuit, Purisima claims that his middle finger was bitten off by a ‘rabies-infected’ dog on a city bus; before a ‘Chinese couple’ took unauthorized photos of him as he was being treated at a local hospital.

Also in the rambling and often incoherent lawsuit, Purisima complains that he is routinely overcharged for coffee at LaGuardia Airport.

The suit claims the pain and other additional damages he suffered ‘cannot be repaired by money’ and are ‘therefore priceless.’ Included in the suit as evidence is a photo of his bloodied finger.

During his ordeal, Purisim claims he suffered civil rights violations, personal injury, discrimination on national origin, retaliation, harassment, fraud, attempted murder, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and conspiracy to defraud.

The full list of defendants in the case include Au Bon Pain, Carepoint Health, Hoboken University Medical Center, Kmart Store 7749, St. Luke’s Emergency Dept., New York City Transit Authority, City of New York, NYC MTA, LaGuardia Airport Administration, Amy Caggiula and Does 1-1000 which refers to a thousand ‘John Does’.

The amount, which can also be referred to as two undecillion dollars - or the number two with 36 zeroes behind it - is more money than currently exists on the planet.

This isn’t Purisima’s first lawsuit. In last four years he has filed lawsuits against the People’s Republic of China, several major banks (including Wells Fargo, JP Morgan, and Wachovia, the Commissioner of Social Security, Lang Lang International Music Foundation, and others.
