
Already have a Rappler Account? Login OR Register to create one.

Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).

MATARA, Sri Lanka – President Mahinda Rajapakse led celebrations at a major victory parade Sunday, May 18, to mark the 5th anniversary of the end of Sri Lanka's Tamil separatist war, after banning commemorations for its victims.

"Some governments are blind, deaf and dumb. They are opposed to our celebrating this victory," Rajapakse said in a televised speech from Matara, his birthplace in the Sinhalese heartland of the island's south.

"We are not celebrating victory in a war, we are celebrating peace. Irrespective of who opposes this, or who stays away, we will always commemorate this day," he added.

The 37-year conflict effectively ended on May 18, 2009, when troops killed the Tamil Tiger rebels' supremo Velupillai Prabhakaran in a brutal assault on the northern town of Mullaittivu.

Rajapakse, however, has denied any civilians were killed in the finale and is resisting calls for an international inquiry into claims that troops killed thousands of civilians who had been herded into no-fire zones.

His administration has also ordered a ban on all commemorations this weekend. Police on Friday, May 16, broke up a remembrance service that was being held in council offices in the battle-scarred northern town of Jaffna.

Around 7,500 troops took part in Sunday's parade which featured tanks, gunboats and military aircraft.

Canada, a strong critic of Sri Lanka's war record, had announced its top envoy in Colombo would boycott Sunday's parade while the top diplomats from other Western powers, including the United States and former colonial power Britain, were conspicuous by their absence.

Canadian High Commissioner (ambassador) Shelley Whiting said in a statement to a local newspaper Friday that the parade was inappropriate because the government should be concentrating on reconciliation.

"Five years after the end of the conflict, the time has arrived for Sri Lanka to move past wartime discourse and to start working seriously towards reconciliation," she said.

Go!

We can't serve the Mood meter on your browser at the moment. We are aware of this and are working to make it available to you soon. If you want the full Rappler.com experience now, please download the latest version of Firefox , Chrome or Internet Explorer .

Fields with * are required.

Click close to continue.
