
MANILA - Philippine legislators foresee a spur in development in the future Bangsamoro region as they completed a five-day study visit program on Spain's autonomy models.

"I am now envisioning a spur in Bangsamoro development," Senator Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel III said.

Pimentel, along with Senators Pia Cayetano and Representatives Deputy Speaker Pangalian Balindong, Jim Salliman, Jesus Sacdalan, Bai Sandra Sema, Nancy Catamco, Rodolfo Biazon, Teodoro Baguilat, Jr. and Arnulfo Go participated in a study visit program organized by the Spanish Embassy in Manila and funded by the Agencia Española de Cooperacion Internacional para el Desarollo (AECID).

Also wtih them were Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process Teresita Quintos Deles and Philippine Ambassador to Spain Carlos Salinas.

"During this study trip, we were exposed to European Union standards and I am hoping that these EU standards can creep into the drafting of the Bangsamoro Basic Law," Pimentel said. "If Europe is progressive because of these standards, I am hoping that the Bangsamoro will also progress."

Pimentel was referring to the different standards in governance and administration put in place by the Spanish national government and being followed and implemented by the autonomous regions.

Cayetano cited the health care in the autonomous community of Galicia as an example. "The national government and the national laws still dictate the number of systems or standards that one must provide but the implementation reside with the autonomous government," she said.

"Seeing how it works here gives me better ideas on how to share the power," Cayetano added.

During the study visit, the Philippine delegation was given a first hand view of the experiences of Spain in the setting up of its 17 autonomous communities, provided with best practices and lessons learned on the relationships between the central and autonomous governments as well as on territorial and political organization, public administration, decentralization and models of local autonomy.

The legislators also visited the local government units of Galicia, namely, the municipalities of Santiago and Cambados as well as Madrid for in-depth discussions on their specific autonomy systems.

"We've heard from the people themselves. We've heard it from the President of the Parliament of Galicia, we've also heard from the mayor of the town of Cambados. We've also heard from the Xunta de Galicia (Government of Galicia) the executive branch and met the President," Rep. Rufus Rodriguez said.

"In all of these learnings and all of the information they gave us, somehow we have a working knowledge on how a country like Spain which gave autonomy to 17 regions can become a model for possible adaptation on the BBL (Bangsamoro Basic Law)," Rodriguez added.

Other delegates to the study visit includes representatives from the Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process, namely Undersecretary Jose Lorena, Assistant Secretary Rose Romero, Director Polly Michelle Cunanan and the legal team of the government peace panel, lawyers Anna Tarhata Basman and Armi Bayot.
