
The Malaysia Airlines 777 in a Wiki Commons photo three years before it vanished.

China is sending a ship to conduct a sea floor search for the wreckage of missing flight MH370 as the second phase of efforts to find Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777-200ER ramps up.

Malaysian, Australian and Chinese authorities met over the weekend in Fremantle to discuss the bathymetric survey.

It was agreed that the Chinese survey ship Zhu Kezhen will conduct the bathymetric survey of the areas provided by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau.

Zhu Kezhen is scheduled to sail for the survey area on Wednesday, weather permitting.

On 5 May the deputy PM and Minister for Transport Warren Truss made it clear the new search phase would involve more than one higher capacity device to explore the sea bed in areas where it is estimated that the jet crashed some seven hours 38 minutes after it took off from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing on 8 March with 239 people on board.

Australian transport minister Truss said he expected a tender process might be conducted to select a single commercial operator for the new equipment, emphasising that there would be more than one new device brought into the search.

What is not made clear in the statement is whether or not the search priorities for Zhu Kezhen have been refined during the review of all of the data and assumptions that led to the identification of an arc of impact possibilities in the Indian Ocean some 1600 kms west to northwest from Perth.

It is not known if the Zhu Kezhen will search outside the originally identified areas of greatest interest.

The JACC statement also provided this update on the intended resumption of the the sea floor search by the Bluefin-21 automated submersible device and its support ship Ocean Shield.

ADV Ocean Shield arrived at Geraldton, Western Australia, yesterday to begin preparations to receive spare parts related to the transponder mounted on the Ocean Shield and the transponder mounted on the Autonomous Underwater Vehicle, Bluefin-21.

The repairs are necessary to correct a hardware issue affecting the ability of the transponders to communicate with each other during a dive. The problem became apparent during Bluefin-21′s last mission on Tuesday.

Ocean Shield was originally going to Dampier to await the transponder parts, however, it was determined that the parts could be delivered to the ship more quickly via the port of Geraldton.

The spare parts are expected to arrive in Geraldton later today.

Once the replacement parts are installed, testing will be conducted at Geraldton prior to Ocean Shield transiting back to the search area.

Thank you for registering, we have just sent you a confirmation email, which includes your new password to be entered below.

I was very disappointed.

4 Corners didn’t reveal anything more than one and a half million Plane Talking readers logged on to during the crucial early weeks of the disappearance.

The ABC’s most glaring error was not to compare what was in the long suppressed preliminary report by Malaysia investigators to ICAO compared to the date stamped and seriously misleading statements its authorities made to the media prior to its eventual release.

This is fundamental, methodical journalism.  The Malyasian Interim report and supporting statement made it clear that by about 10 am on the morning the flight disappeared, that is, just over nine hours after it took off, an unidentified defence radar trace had been linked to the likelihood of it being MH370. The trace was observed flying across the Malaysia Peninsula from the point of disappearance of MH370 on secondary ATC radars over the Gulf of Thailand. Its significance was know to the Malaysia Government that very morning. Officially known.

Yet 4 Corners somehow totally misses this absolutely vital piece of evidence, or alternatively, had no idea how significant it is when it comes to the conduct of the early search, and the extraordinary waste of search assets by many nations that followed because of the insistence of Kuala Lumpur that the jet might have come down in the South China Sea.

While it knew better!

Read it right to the end.

The media lesson in this is that continuity of reporting is essential in long running stories. As is the auditing of earlier public statements in comparison to later public statements.

A reporter since November 30, 1960, Ben Sandilands looks at what really matters up in the sky: public administration of air transport and its safety, the accountability of the carriers, and space for everyone’s knees.

Level 6, 22 William St,
