
The document goes on at length to outline process, neutrality, conduct, and principles. I think the best line is at the start. That sums up why political activists, as students of democracy, work so hard to make a difference in their own country.

From their 57 member states throughout the world, OSCE will have over 1,000 observers on the ground. It’s a massive contingent. It’s an incredible feat of logistics, co-ordination and planning. As a member state, the government of Canada is sending 135 observers to join this mission. In addition, they are sending over 300 observers organized by Forum of the Federations.

In 2012, I observed the Ukraine parliamentary elections with CANADEM. My instructions were clear — observe, record and report.

An observer can expect to be deployed for about 10 days. There are normally two or three days of briefings in the country with the entire delegation before moving on to your specific regional assignment. Briefings can include various topics like a current political analysis, local election laws, gender equality, minority representation, media analysis, conduct expectations and security. With all this information in hand, you are ready to deploy to your regional assignment.

If not sooner, upon arrival to the region you will meet with the long-term observer responsible for the region. Long-term observers are typically there six weeks prior to your arrival. They know the lay of the land — they have scoped the places you will observe, they’ve met with local political leaders, they have probably met and interacted with other international and domestic observers, and with this on-the-ground information, they will be able to provide more specific briefings.

Now you are paired with a partner, a driver and a translator. With a notepad, camera, cellphone and list of questions, you’re ready to observe, record and report.

In 2012, I even met a poet and two architects in our delegation.

In the end, it’s just people who care about world affairs and want to assist. Observing organizations often take great care to make sure they have broad cross-section of participants and balanced gender representation.

When travelling to a new place, especially one that’s in the news, people often have questions about security. Any organization observing elections will have invested heavily into a local presence and knowledge.

They will have had an office in the capital for months. The long-term observers will have been in the field gathering information and feeding it back. Security professionals will assess and provide advice. Every decision to deploy will go through a lengthy process of risk and program assessment. In the end, nothing beats an observant eye and common sense.

I remember a conversation with a friend who works at the National Democratic Institute in Washington, D.C. He’s devoted his career to building democracy in often volatile areas. Over the years, he said there are a few simple things he always recommends — wear your seatbelt, avoid demonstrations, show respect and be patient. In a true Canadian fashion, he also added that sometimes nothing could defuse a tense situation like a genuine smile.

Being a short-term observer isn’t for everyone. The days are long, conditions can be difficult, the travel is far from “5 Star,” you need to leave your business and normal life, you can feel “herded” at times, you can feel like a very small part of the process, and, depending of where you travel, you may not always feel welcome.

In this case, Ukraine has invited international observers. Canada, as a member state of OSCE, is supporting the mission. In the Maritimes, it’s pretty standard to offer assistance when someone asks for help — it’s the right thing to do.

As a short-term observer, your own local observations are important even if they are only a small part of the bigger picture for the entire country. In 2012, I witnessed that, even if just in small increments, positive change is possible. I also realized I had a lot in common with people half a world away in a country that was still foreign to me.

Politics and campaigns run deep in my veins. I’ve earned scars from municipal, provincial and federal levels. Now I’m interested in global politics and international relations. I’ve built a small business around creating new trade relationships across international borders. My best travel reward is a new stamp in my passport.
