
A tipster is set to get a $25,000 reward from the U.S. Marshals and a $1,000 reward from Crime Stoppers for helping authorities catch a member of Miami's Little Haiti gang Zoe Pound.

Authorities said Wesnel Isaac, 33, was known as a feared "Zoe boy" enforcer for the Miami gang in Lee County and Collier County. After seven years in hiding, the hand of justice caught up to him. He was being held without bond in Lee County Monday and will be facing trial June 16.

U.S. Marshal Service Deputy Director David Harlow said the crimes that Isaac was accused of "were horrendous" and that he had "potential for continued violence."

Isaac was accused of being one of a group of Zoe Pound gang members, who kidnapped three men from a house in Bonita Springs, beat them up  and shot them dead in 2007. A driver found the bodies of Willard Graham, Scott Highfill, 44, and Robert Barckley, 35, in a car in Lehigh Acres.

The Zoe Pound gang is one of Miami's most feared gangs. It was linked to the Black Mafia Family in Atlanta and is a rival of MS-13. Miami-Dade Detectives said that the gang was organized and continues to branch out through the East Coast and the Caribbean.

Isaac was suspected of hiding in Miami at one point. He made it to the 15 Most Wanted fugitive list in 2013. Haitian police arrested him in Carrefour, Haiti, May 10th, where he had relatives.

After he was extradited to Miami Thursday, the U.S. Marshals drove him to Fort Myers, where he appeared in bond court Friday. He was facing charges related the triple homicide, attempted homicide, kidnapping, home invasion and for being a felon in possession of a fire arm.

One of Isaac's co-defendants, Loubert Jules, received three life sentences after being convicted of second-degree murder and false imprisonment. Two others received eight years in prison after pleading guilty to charges of accessory after the fact to testify against Jules.

Copyright 2014 by Local10.com. The Associated Press contributed to this report. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
