
Panic gripped the Sector 17 market on Monday night when three assailants allegedly opened fire at a bouncer and his friend outside a lounge where a birthday party was being held. Both the victims suffered bullet injuries and were rushed to PGI. The attackers had allegedly been pushed out of the birthday party by the bouncer a while before the incident happened as they were creating nuisance in the party.

The victims have been identified as Rahul Sharma, 27, a Sector 40 resident who works as a bouncer in the Buzz Lounge in Sector 17; and his friend Pardeep Kumar, 27, originally from Ludhiana and an IELTS aspirant who had come to pick up Sharma in his vehicle when they were attacked.

The police said that they had identified the accused but had withheld their names as they were still at large. However, one of the accused, Sunil Singh Gill, a resident of Sector 8, was arrested late at night. He was identified on the basis of CCTV footage of the lounge.

According to sources, the incident occurred following a birthday party organised by one Rattan Lubana in the lounge. After the cake-cutting ceremony, the three accused allegedly started smearing cake on Lubana’s face and also started a cake-fight, to which Lubana and the other guests objected. The accused were in an inebriated condition and when they continued to create a ruckus, the bouncer held them and pushed them outside.

The accused left the place but a while later, returned in a white-coloured SUV and opened fire at Sharma and Kumar, who was standing next to him. Kumar suffered a bullet injury on his hip while Sharma got one on his foot. While the three miscreants fled the spot, the victims were rushed to PGI around 9 pm. It was only when they were admitted to the hospital that the police became aware of the incident.

Senior police officers including DSP (Crime) Jagbir Singh, DSP (Central) Ashish Kapoor and ASP (City) immediately rushed to the scene of the crime. At the time of filing this report, the police were questioning the guests at the party while a police team was sent to record the statement of the victims.

The police said that a case of attempt to murder had been registered against the accused under the IPC and the Arms Act.

Talking to Newsline, one of the victims, Rahul Sharma, said that while the party was on, there were some people who started smearing cake everywhere and were asked to leave. After his shift got over, he was talking to his friends downstairs when some people in a white Safari opened fire.

The bullet lodged in Sharma’s leg has been removed. The other victim would require a minor surgery. Doctors said that the condition of the two was stable.
