
More than a quarter of Bosnia's four million people have been affected by the worst floods to hit the Balkans in more than a century, the government said on Monday, warning of "terrifying" destruction comparable to the country's 1992-95 war.

The floods extended across Serbia and Bosnia,  where receding waters in some of the worst-hit areas are now revealing the  extent of the devastation. Homes have been toppled or submerged in mud, trees  felled and villages strewn with the rotting corpses of  livestock.

"The consequences of the floods are terrifying," Bosnian  Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdzija told a news conference. "The physical  destruction is not less than the destruction caused by the war." He said more  than 100,000 houses and other buildings were no longer usable. "During the war,  many people lost everything," he said. "Today, again they have  nothing."

More than a million people in Bosnia were been cut off  from clean water supplies, Lagumdzija said, after torrential rains caused rivers  to burst their banks and triggered more than 2,000 landslides.

The  discovery of a body in northern Bosnia on Monday raised the regional death toll  to at least 38, but the figure was likely to rise further.

Even as  the crisis eased in some areas, a new flood wave from the swollen River Sava  threatened others, notably Serbia's largest power plant, the Nikola Tesla  complex, 30 km (18 miles) southwest of the capital, Belgrade.

In  Bosnia, one official said as many as 500,000 people had been evacuated or left  their homes, the kind of human displacement not seen since more than a million  were driven out by ethnic cleansing in the Bosnian war two decades ago. At least  25,000 people have been evacuated in Serbia.

"We have some  indications that a half a million Bosnians have either been evacuated or have  left their homes because of flooding or landslides," said Fahrudin Solak, the  acting head of the civil defence service in Bosnia's autonomous  Federation.

Communities in both countries continued to stack sandbags  and dig trenches to protect towns from flooding triggered by the heaviest  rainfall in the Balkans since records began 120 years ago.

Soldiers and energy workers worked through the night to  build barriers of sandbags to keep the water back from Serbia's Nikola Tesla  energy complex and from a second site, the Kostolac coal-fired plant, east of  Belgrade.

Hundreds of volunteers in the capital filled sandbags and  stacked them along the banks of Sava. Police issued an appeal for more  bags.

Djina Trisovic, a union spokeswoman at Serbia's EPS power utility,  said some workers at the Nikola Tesla plant had worked three days with barely a  break because their relief teams could not reach the plant.

"The  plant should be safe now," she told Reuters. "We've done all we could. Now it's  in the hands of God."

The plant provides roughly half of Serbia's  electricity. Parts were already shut down as a precaution, and it would have to  be powered down completely if the waters breached the defences.

Authorities in Bosnia issued a fresh warning about  the danger of landmines left over from the war and now dislodged by the  flooding. The Centre for the Removal of Landmines appealed for international  help in securing equipment and satellite screening to monitor  minefields.

In the north Bosnian town of Maglaj, barely a single  house was left untouched by the waters, which receded to leave a trail of mud  and debris. "It was totally submerged for two days," said its mayor, Mehmet  Mustabasic. "It will take years, even decades, for Maglaj to get back to how it  was."

In Krupanj in western Serbia, a woman wept on the remains of  her destroyed house. Several other homes had tilted into the swollen river, mud  and tree branches driven through walls and windows by the force of a  landslide.

The authorities have jailed thousands of Mursi  supporters since the army deposed the Brotherhood politician last July following  mass protests against his rule.

Earlier this year, a judge issued  preliminary death sentences against 1,200 Brotherhood supporters and members in  two separate cases, triggering heavy condemnation from Western governments and  human rights groups. The convicted included the group's leader, Mohamed  Badie.

Rights groups criticised the trials for deep procedural flaws,  and despite the acquittals, other courts are continuing with  convictions.

A judge in Alexandria on Monday convicted 62 people and  sentenced them to jail terms of up to 25 years in relation to political violence  last July. The judge also upheld the death penalty against one of those charged  in the case.

This came a day after more than 160 Brotherhood  supporters were handed sentences of up to 15 years in prison.

Mursi's  overthrow triggered the worst bout of internal strife in Egypt's modern history,  with many hundreds of his supporters killed.

Several hundred  policemen and soldiers have also died in a campaign of bombings and shootings  since last year.

Any unauthorised use or reproduction of bdnews24.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action.
