
BRITAIN'S open prison policy has come under fire after a convicted murderer went on the run for the THIRD time while on day release.

The pair have now been reapprehended but their escape comes just two weeks after Michael Wheatley, dubbed the Skull Cracker, did not return to a Kent prison.

Today Tory backbencher Philip Davies, the MP for Shipley, described the latest disappearances as an "absolute scandal".

He questioned why convicted murderers were ever given temporary release when figures which he obtained through parliamentary answers showed 106 had absconded in the past 10 years.

"It is an absolute scandal in the prison system. How on earth people like this can ever be given temporary release from prison on licence is beyond me," he said.

"This is a regular occurence - murderers are walking out of prison willy nilly. It's a joke. I'm exasperated. I think the whole system is completely ridiculous."

Mr Davies said that when he tabled an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill currently going through Parliament - which would have prevented the temporary release of murderers - it was blocked by the Government.

The disappearance of the two men is highly embarrassing for the Government, coming a fortnight after notorious armed robber Wheatley absconded from Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey, Kent, while on temporary release.

Pickering last absconded in December, 2009 when he was let out on day release from HMP Kirkham to work on the bins in Manchester city centre.

He was one of eight prisoners taking part in a controversial scheme run by the Prison Service with Enterprise Manchester - which emptied refuse for Manchester Council at the time.

He handed himself in four days later in Motherwell, Scotland.

Pickering, who stabbed a man to death in Oldham in 1990, had also escaped from Strangeways in Manchester on a previous occasion.

He was jailed in 1991 for life and ordered to serve a minimum of 18 years.

A spokesman for the force said yesterday evening: "Both prisoners were due back at around 4.30pm yesterday but failed to return and this was reported to Merseyside Police at around 7pm."

The force said initially that both men were believed to be in the Southport area, before confirming that a 51-year-old man was arrested at 9.15pm, last night on suspicion of being unlawfully at large.

Ministers said at the time of Wheatley's disappearance that there would be a full review of the case, including an assessment of the release on temporary licence (ROTL) process.

Following the latest case, Prisons Minister Jeremy Wright said there would now be "major changes" brought in as a "matter of urgency".

"I am not prepared to see public safety compromised. The system for allowing prisoners out on temporary licence has been too lax up till now and we are making major changes to address this," he said in a statement.

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
