
Two West Manheim Township Police officers, including the chief, were bitten by a dog while at the scene of a house fire in the township Monday morning.

Chief Tim Hippensteel, who suffered injuries in the attack, was forced to shoot the pit bull, police said.

It is expected to survive.

Fellow police officer Sgt. Toby Wildasin was also injured when the dog belonging to a tenant of the burned home leapt from a car and attacked them.

Both officers were treated at the scene for their injuries.

The dog's owner, Christopher Adam Weibe, 20, of 31 Rickey Drive, is in York County Prison on $2,500 bail, stemming from the attack and drug charges, police say.

The attack: Hippensteel was sent to the home about 11:20 a.m. for the fire and, once there, went into the burning house to search for anyone inside but was forced out by heavy smoke and flames, police said.

Weibe and another person were asleep in the basement but heard Hippensteel's shouts about the fire and, with the pit bull, got out via a basement door.

Police say Weibe became argumentative and uncooperative when officers told him he had to secure the dog. Weibe put the dog in his car, which is missing a passenger-door window, police said.

The dog jumped through the window and attacked Wildasin, biting his inner thigh and groin area, causing minor injuries, police said.

Weibe regained control of the dog and put it back in the car. But it didn't stay there for long.

It again jumped through the window, this time attacking Hippensteel and biting his right calf, police said.

Hippensteel shot the dog once with his handgun. It was at that point that, police say, Weibe also got out of the car and shoved Hippensteel to the ground.

Weibe ran away but was arrested a short time later when he returned to the scene.

The dog was found nearby and was taken to a veterinarian for treatment, police said.

Charges: Officers found marijuana, which Weibe took from the home when he fled the flames, in Weibe's car, police allege.

They also found drug paraphernalia inside the home, police said.

Weibe was taken to the county's central booking unit, where he was arraigned.

He is charged with aggravated assault on a police officer, simple assault, resisting arrest, reckless endangerment, harassment, possession of marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia, police said.

It's not known if he has retained an attorney.

Police have asked the York County District Attorney's detective bureau to investigate the shooting to see if department regulations and state law were followed.

The fire: Pleasant Hill Volunteer Community Fire Co. Chief Ted Clousher said the blaze started in an attached garage and spread to the house.

Crews had the fire under control in 25 to 30 minutes, the chief said.

Weibe and the other resident weren't initally aware if anyone else was inside the home. That caused firefighters to search the house twice.

No one else was found inside, Clousher said.

All told, five adults and three children were displaced, according to the local Red Cross, who is assisting them with food, clothing and a place to stay.

A state police fire marshal is investigating its cause, Clousher said, adding it caused $125,000 in damage.

The house is owned by a member of the armed forces who is serving aboard. He is renting the house and the residents  do not have renters' insurance, Clousher said.
