
South Florida Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein is serving a 50-year federal prison term for masterminding a BILLION dollar fraud.  But he is still registered to vote.

Original post | 9:30 a.m.

Updated | 2:17 p.m. and 5:12 p.m.

One of South Florida’s most notorious felons, Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein , is still a registered voter in Florida.

His presence on the voter rolls was discovered by Broward civic activist Andrew Ladanowski and confirmed Monday by Mary Cooney, director of public services at the Broward Supervisor of Elections Office.

Rothstein is still listed as a registered voter at his tony, previous address at 30 Isla Bahia Drive in Fort Lauderdale .

He’s now at an undisclosed location because he is in a witness protection program within the federal prison system because he supplied authorities with information about organized crime figures. His whereabouts have been a closely guarded secret since June 2010, when he was sentenced to 50 years in federal prison for masterminding a $1.4 billion Ponzi scheme out of his opulent law office on Fort Lauderdale's Las Olas Boulevard.

Voting records list his mailing address as 401 E. Las Olas Blvd., in Fort Lauderdale. That’s the downtown Bank of America building where his Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler law firm was headquartered before his scheme imploded.

He last voted in the 2008 presidential election. A registered Republican, he voted in the 2008 state primary and in the 2008 presidential preference primary. He first registered to vote in February 1998.

His wife, Kim, is also still registered to vote, Cooney said.

She is serving 18 months at the Coleman federal prison complex in Central Florida after admitting to hiding more than $1 million worth of jewelry from federal authorities. She attempted to hide jewelry and other assets to keep herself financially afloat after her husband's $1.4 billion investment fraud scheme was exposed in October 2009.

Kim Rothstein has filed for divorce.

She registered to vote in 2008 and voted in that year’s primary and presidential election.

The state bans felons from voting unless their rights have been restored by the Florida Cabinet.

People convicted of crimes aren’t automatically removed “even if we know someone’s a felon,” Cooney said. The same is true with deaths, she said. Elections officials require some kind of official notice before taking action.

Also, she said, the state Division of Elections is now responsible for removing felons from the voter rolls. It’s no longer a responsibility of county supervisors of elections.

Cooney said there was a similar situation involving former Broward Sheriff Ken Jenne , who went to prison for corruption. He was listed as a registered voter, though not legally allowed to vote, upon his release from prison.

She said Supervisor of Elections Brenda Snipes was out of the office Monday at a state conference of elections supervisors.

Cooney said she’d report the Rothsteins’ presence on the voter rolls. “I will move it up the pike,” she said.

Ladanowski, who owns a Coral Springs technology company, has been active in local education issues, serving as chairman of the Broward School District’s Facilities Task Force. He also scrutinizes voting.

Late Monday afternoon, the communications director for the Secretary of State’s office, Brittany Lesser, said it’s the responsibility of supervisors of elections to remove a felon.

If they get knowledge of a felon on the voter rolls, they can and should start the process of removing the person, Lesser said.

Information from Sun Sentinel archives was used in this report.

We've upgraded our reader commenting system. Learn more about the new features.

The Sun Sentinel welcomes civil dialogue about our stories; you must register with the site to participate. We filter comments for language and adherence to our Terms of Service , but not for factual accuracy. By commenting, you agree to these legal terms. Please flag inappropriate comments. Having technical problems? Check here for guidance.

ANTHONY MAN is the Sun Sentinel's political writer. Concentrating on local political people, parties and trends, he also covers state and national politics from a South Florida perspective.

BRITTANY WALLMAN covers Broward County and news. She has covered local government and elections her entire reporting career -- including the infamous 2000 recount.

LARRY BARSZEWSKI covers Fort Lauderdale and the neighboring communities of Wilton Manors, Oakland Park, Lauderhill, Lauderdale Lakes and Lauderdale-by-the-Sea. His past reporting includes coverage of state legislative sessions and Palm Beach County government and schools.

SUSANNAH BRYAN covers Hollywood, Sunrise, Hallandale Beach, Dania Beach and Pembroke Park.

LISA J. HURIASH covers communities in northwest Broward.
