
A4 0-year-old woman, new to the city, was allegedly gangraped by three security guards deployed at a construction site along the Mumbai-Bangalore highway in Baner, on Sunday night. She had asked one of them for directions, after she lost her way home.

Police have arrested the guards, identified as Ritesh Maheshkumar Savita (23) of Tapkir Vasti in Baner, Shersingh Janaksingh Rajput (29) and Birjeshsingh Sardarsingh Rajput (20), both currently residing at Wakad. All three are natives of Madhya Pradesh and have been working here for the past two or three years, police said. The incident comes less than two months after Police Commissioner Sanjay Kumar instructed personnel at the chowky level to start collecting information about security guards working in the city.

According to police, the incident took place between 7 pm to 7.30 pm on an open ground near Pawar Vasti in Baner. The woman and her husband work as labourers and had come here about a month ago. On Sunday evening, she had gone to Pashan market to buy vegetables.

On her way back home, she lost her way and went to Pawar Vasti. Senior Police Inspector Arun Sawant, in-charge of Chatushrungi police station, said, "Ritesh was standing at the main gate of the construction site in Pawar vasti. The woman went up to him and asked if he could direct her towards Baner.

Ritesh told her the way, but as she started walking away, he followed her and intercepted her in the dark. He threatened her with a knife, forcefully took her to the ground and raped her." In her statement, the victim said that the accused then called Shersingh and Brijeshsingh who also raped her.

"Some passers-by heard her screams and rushed to the spot. They caught hold of Ritesh while Brijeshsingh and Shersingh escaped. Someone then informed the police control room and our staff also arrived at the spot. After a massive search, we finally nabbed the duo in the early hours of Monday," added Sawant.

Police have charged the accused under sections 376 D (rape) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A magistrate court has remanded the three accused in police custody till May 26. The accused are working with security agencies Hadapsar-based P R Enterprises and Vikrant Security Services. "Both the agencies are registered with the police.

As per rules, agencies are supposed to have done police verification of the guards. We are verifying these details," ACP (Chatushrungi division) Smita Patil told Mirror. Owner of the security agencies Rajesh Dubey initially said he was going through the guards' papers to verify their details and asked this reporter to contact him later. However, Dubey stopped answering phone calls after that and did not respond to text messages either.

Sort by:Newest|Oldest|Recommended|Most Discussed|Agree|Disagree|Logged in CommentsNew!
