
Drivers have smashed into nearly two dozen Colorado State Patrol cruisers on highways this year.

There have been 22 accidents in the first five months of 2014, said Trooper  Josh Lewis, a State Patrol spokesman, compared with 19 wrecks  in all of 2013.

"There's no excuse for it," he said. "All of us are very concerned for our safety."

Troopers have been working to increase awareness of the issue since the beginning of the year with a campaign to have drivers move over to avoid troopers on the shoulder.

Last week, troopers joined in a nationwide Twitter movement to draw attention to the crashes.

"We've been fortunate that we haven't lost anybody, but we had people seriously injured," said Lewis.

On Jan. 11, two empty patrol cruisers were struck by a drug-impaired driver while troopers investigated a crash on the Interstate 76 ramp from northbound I-25 in Denver, the State Patrol reported.

In February, troopers held a news conference to say that nine troopers had been involved in crashes caused by careless, reckless or impaired drivers since Dec. 19.

Pictures of smashed cruisers from around the state have been posted on the  State Patrol's official Twitter account, including crashes in northern Colorado Springs on I-25 near mile markers 150 and 156 in February and March.

Most recently, on May 11, a trooper was sitting in his cruiser when a driver collided with it on U.S. 285 near Fairplay.

Of the 24 Colorado state troopers who have died in the line of duty, six were killed when they were hit on the side of the highway, the patrol reported.

The most recent death was in 2007, when 27-year-old Trooper Zachariah Templeton was assisting with a spilled trailer load on Interstate 76.

"We've seen it on any type of highway and every situation you could imagine," Lewis said.

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
