
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

A crash in Melbourne South has left one man dead and two other men in hospital with critical injuries after the driver lost control and slammed into a garage in Dromana. Nine news.

Speed may have contributed to a car crash that has claimed the life one young man and left another two in a critical condition.

A small grey Suzuki sedan skidded off the road, became airborne and smashed into the garage of a holiday home on McCulloch Street, Dromana, just before 9pm on Sunday.

It careened into a street sign and then a tree before becoming airborne and crashing into the building.

One passenger, believed to be a 28-year-old Somerville man, died at the scene. Police are investigating whether he was wearing a seatbelt. Another man is in critical condition in The Alfred hospital on Monday afternoon. No other details about the man were available, a police spokeswoman said.

The driver and a second passenger - aged in their 20s and 30s - were trapped in the car for about an hour before they were flown to The Alfred.

Major Collision Unit Detective Inspector Bernie Rankin said both men had "significant injuries".

"Here we have a situation where a simple night out with your friends can just turn into this and this is just simply a dreadful mess," he said.

The building the car collided with is believed to be a holiday home that was unoccupied at the time.

Detective Inspector Rankin said preliminary investigations had revealed speed may have been a factor.

"Excessive speed was certainly involved, we believe the vehicle lost control, the driver for some inexplicable reason was exceeding the posted speed limit in the area and of course the consequences have been rather dire," he said.

"Its just a situation that was totally avoidable and unfortunately the message does not get through to everyone."Neighbour Pam Ireland told 3AW that the crash "sounded like a big trailer jack-knifing". "I heard this horrendous crash, but I didn't think it was a car accident," she said.

Anyone who witnessed the crash is asked to phone Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000. Police would also like to hear from anybody who may have seen the Suzuki before the crash.

The stars of television splashed the red carpet with colourful outfits as they headed into the 66th annual Emmy Awards.
