
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

From public safety to fall leaf pickup, Ann Arbor council members are expected to debate the level of funding for a variety of city services before potentially adopting a final budget for the 2014-15 fiscal year Monday night.

As of Monday afternoon, council members had put forward draft language for at least 17 amendments to the $334 million budget plan recommended by City Administrator Steve Powers.

The changes proposed by council members seek to adjust funding in the areas of police staffing, public art, animal control and deer management, fall leaf pickup, holiday tree pickup, pedestrian safety, alternative transportation, economic development and human services, possibly including new funding for drug treatment and expanded warming center services for the homeless.

Another amendment would allow the city to implement year-round compost collection, with weekly pickup added from December through March.

Mayor John Hieftje and other council members also want the city to start putting more money toward fighting climate change.

Another proposal on the table would remove funding for a $4.4 million exterior "re-skinning" of city hall from the city's Capital Improvements Plan.

Council Members Jack Eaton, Sumi Kailasapathy and Jane Lumm are proposing increasing the police department's ranks by five officers — two more than are included in the administrator's budget.

That would push the department's full-time employee count up to 151, which they point out is still below the 244 full-time employees the department had in 2001.

Council Member Chuck Warpehoski has put forward a competing proposal to reduce the number of new police officers from three to two, reducing the community engagement area of the police budget by $95,000. He proposes putting the savings toward drug treatment and prevention instead.

The $168,208 increase in the budget for the two additional officers proposed by Eaton, Kailasapathy and Lumm is proposed to be funded by a $50,000 cut to the 15th District Court and a $118,208 cut to the "non-departmental" portion of the general fund.

They point out there are more than $2.6 million in non-departmental line items, including contingency funds for contract and legal settlements, as well as money set aside for severance payments.

Their proposal states that if the city gets more state aid than the $11.1 million expected this year, money cut from those areas could be restored.

They also want the council to once again formally ask the Downtown Development Authority to fund three downtown beat officers.

For the third year in a row, Lumm is seeking to restore bulk collection of leaves that are raked into the street, as well as holiday tree pickup services. Those services were eliminated during a previous round of budget cuts in 2010.

Eaton and Kailasapathy are joining Lumm in co-sponsoring a resolution that would pull $406,000 from the solid waste fund's cash reserves to pay for one-time capital costs needed to restore the services, while budgeting $319,500 for the recurring annual expenses. They argue solid waste fund expenditures have been significantly under budget each of the last three years with under-runs well in excess of $319,500, so they believe the additional costs could be absorbed in the budget.

Under the city's current approach to fall leaf management, residents are encouraged to mulch their leaves, set paper bags and compost carts with leaves at the curb for weekly pickup, or take advantage of bulk leaf drop-off locations.

For holiday trees, the city also encourages residents to dispose of their trees at a drop-off station on Ellsworth Road in January.

The city administrator's budget already includes an extra $1 million to make up for a maintenance backlog of street trees in the city.

Eaton says the city needs to begin transitioning toward maintaining the city's public trees with city forestry staff, so he has put forward an amendment to hire an additional city forester — paid for through a one-time use of cash reserves, plus $50,000 in one-time savings from the elimination of a planned corridor study on Ellsworth Road.

Hieftje and Council Members Christopher Taylor, Margie Teall and Warpehoski also want to eliminate the Ellsworth Road corridor study from the budget, but they propose instead putting that money — as well as $75,000 in additional cash reserves — toward programs to further the city's Climate Action Plan, which calls for significantly reducing community greenhouse gas emissions.

Council Member Sabra Briere has put forward a proposal that would extend curbside compost pickup year-round at an extra cost of $300,000 annually.

She proposes funding that with a one-time use of cash reserves, pointing out the solid waste fund had an unrestricted balance of $11.7 million as of last June.

Briere and Lumm are proposing using $100,000 from the city's affordable housing fund to help provide assistance for a warming center for the homeless.

They noted the city and county, along with nonprofit and community representatives, are meeting this spring and summer to develop a plan for maximizing the community's ability to keep those experiencing homelessness safe from exposure and injury during the winter months. Briere and Lumm argue it's imperative that the city and county, along with private funding partners, devote resources to execute a feasible plan.

"Such a plan will include utilizing the Delonis Center to the greatest extent practicable and safe, but must also explore additional warming center capacity within the community," their proposal states. "It is estimated that executing this type of response will require funding in the range of $200,000-$300,000."

Eaton and Kailasapathy are proposing a reduction in the amount budgeted for transitional administrative costs for the city's public art program as it moves in a new direction, reducing that line item from $80,000 to $40,000. The savings would be used for traffic calming projects in neighborhoods.

Briere and Warpehoski propose postponing the $300,000 demolition of a city-owned building at 415 W. Washington St. until the 2015-16 fiscal year.

They propose taking some of the savings in next year's budget and putting $152,320 toward supporting the city's new Pedestrian Safety and Access Task Force.

Eaton, Kailasapathy and Lumm also are separately proposing eliminating the entire $300,000 allocation for the demolition project.

The city administrator's budget already includes $28,000 for animal control efforts in coordination with the county and the Human Society of Huron Valley.

Council Members Sally Hart Petersen, Eaton and Kailasapathy want to eliminate $75,000 in one-time costs for a commercial sign inventory effort and instead put the money toward expanded services for animal control and deer management.

Eaton and Kailasapathy are proposing eliminating the city's $75,000 general fund allocation for economic development group Ann Arbor SPARK and instead putting that money toward human services. They also want to eliminate about $125,000 in the budget of the Local Development Finance Authority, including money for SPARK's marketing efforts, to be used instead for future infrastructure improvements.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
