
For a week in May 2013, the international media spotlight was on the small Stockholm suburb of Husby as riots raged there. A week before the unrest started, police had shot dead a 69-year-old man in his apartment. Some said that was the triggering factor leading young people to lash out. A year on, Radio Sweden asks locals what, if anything, has changed in their neighbourhoods. Reporter: Nathalie Rothschild.

David Nykvist helps his daughter Emilia, 7, with her math homework. Photo: Nathalie Rothschild/Radio Sweden.

The Kista Montessori school has been rebuilt after it was torched during the May 2013 riots. Photo: Nathalie Rothschild/Radio Sweden.

Husby residents have come to listen to academics present their report on the riots. Photo: Nathalie Rothschild/Radio Sweden.

Academics present their report on the riots to Husby residents. Photo: Nathalie Rothschild/Radio Sweden.

For a week in May last year, the international media spotlight was on the small Stockholm suburb of Husby as riots raged there. A year on, Radio Sweden asks locals what, if anything, has changed.

A week before the unrest started on May 19th 2013 in the north-western suburb of Husby, police had shot dead a 69-year-old man in his apartment. Some said that was the triggering factor leading young people to lash out.

During the week of unrest, violence spread to nearby suburbs, including Kista, where a preschool was torched.

"It had been really calm here in Kista. We hadn't noticed anything at all. And then the fire happened. We heard it on the morning news on the Friday. We went to school that morning and the staff had gathered everyone and they informed us about what had happened," says David Nykvist whose eldest daughter, seven-year-old Emilia, attends the Montessori school. A year on, no one has been arrested for the arson, says Nykvist.

"Emilia cried when she heard about the fire. She was really sad and upset. We all were of course, but were very taken care of by the teachers and other staff at the school. On that Friday morning we went from feeling hopelessness to hope and we understood that this was going to be sorted out very quickly. It's strange but it was quite a nice day after all. We had a good time that day,” Nykvist says, with a laugh.

Nykvist says there are positive forces in the neighbourhood, a strong sense of togetherness and a resilient civil society. The image he paints is a stark contrasts to that given in the media when international news crews descended on Husby. Many are keen to challenge that negative image - including some of the 40 or so locals who were interviewed by a group of university researchers after the riots.

The researchers put together a report and a year on, a crowd has filled a small meeting room in central Husby to hear about their findings. Those who have come talk about civil society actions - protests against cuts and gentrification projects. They mention arts festivals and volunteer street patrols. But many of the young people here are also feeling dejected.

Alex, a local resident, works as a civil servant in the Ministry for Finance. "I think it's a complex set of factors that led to the riots,” he says. “I'm pretty sure it can't be reduced to criminal gangs or frustrated young men in organised crime. It's way deeper. You walk down the streets here and you see paintings on the walls that say 'we're the forgotten ones'. You have all these anniversaries going on now, but as far as I can see nothing has happened as far as political initiatives are concerned."

"I feel like this is a neighbourhood that has been attacked by the right-wing politicians that have been in power not just for the past eight years, but for 20 years. It began with the Social Democrats,” says Enzo, 22. He used to live in Husby but is now living in Hjulsta, another suburb north of Stockholm.

“The consequences have been unemployment, criminality, youths that don't see a future here, and a place that doesn't give hope to the people living here,” adds Enzo. “It's like people feel that if they are going to have any success in life, then they have to leave this neighbourhood. That is very sad, but I also think there is a fighting spirit in Husby."

Elina, 23, says she was not surprised that the riots happened. "The underlying frustration, anger and hopelessness had been felt for such a long time," she says.

Many residents interviewed by the university researchers also said there is a lot of distrust in the authorities. Few see the police as a positive force.

Martin Marmgren, a police officer who works in Stockholm's north-western suburbs, says many young people are suspicious and aggressive towards him and his colleagues. But he says that even though conflicts with the police can spark violence, it is too simplistic to say that the police's actions caused the riots. Instead, the challenges that the suburbs face are based on socio-economic problems. And because those problems have not been solved in the past year, says Martin Marmgren, there is a risk that riots could break out again.

“Obviously there is a risk. Absolutely. But many parts of society are also more prepared now. The police, I hope, are more prepared. I also think civil society, which was instrumental in stopping the riots last year, is more prepared,” says Marmgren.

Marmgren adds: “At the same time, none of the basic factors have changed, really, so if there is another spark, something that somebody, especially young criminals, can use to rally youth around them to attack the police - if something like that happens again, I think there is definitely a risk of new riots."
