
El Geneina, 19 May 2014 – UNAMID Deputy Joint Special Representative Joseph Mutaboba, on the second day of his two-day trip to El Geneina, West Darfur, inaugurated a women’s centre in the locality of Masteri and delivered a speech at the Ministry of Social Affairs to launch the final phase of UNAMID’s “We Need Peace Now” campaign, coming just before the formal commencement of Darfur’s internal dialogue process, as stipulated in the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur (DDPD).

UNAMID’s Deputy Chief undertook the two-day trip to Darfur’s western state to meet with Sudanese Government representatives, members of the local community, and UNAMID staff working to implement recovery and development projects in the area. On Sunday, he inaugurated a community-based, labour-intensive project in Ardamata, toured the new El Geneina airport facilities constructed by UNAMID and met with the Deputy Wali to discuss West Darfur’s development and security needs.

At the Ministry of Social Affairs, the DJSR joined West Darfur Wali (Governor) Haider Galukoma Ateem and Ms. Suad Salih, the West Darfur Minister of Social Affairs, Youth and Sports, along with other Ministers, to launch the final phase of the “We Need Peace Now” campaign, a Darfur-wide outreach effort undertaken by UNAMID’s Communications and Public Information Section to motivate the young people of Darfur to do everything in their power to bring their communities together and embrace peace.

Mr. Mutaboba said that the final phase of the “We Need Peace Now” campaign marks the beginning of a new campaign, that of the Darfur Internal Dialogue and Consultation process, which is stipulated in the DDPD as an all-inclusive process designed to allow all Darfuris to make their voices heard on the implementation of the DDPD and the peace process. The DJSR urged everyone in attendance at the event, and especially the young people, to get involved in the process as an opportunity in which healthy discussion will be nourished, and use the process as a rallying point to promote dialogue.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
