
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WHAS11) -- Four families are calling on Louisville Metro Police to correct what they said is a case of racial profiling.

A group with the Kentucky Alliance held a rally Monday morning, asking police to "free the misidentified four." They signed petitions, held signs and rallied till their voices went hoarse.

"They have been wrongly charged with crimes they just could not have committed, because they were not at the scene of the crime when the crimes were committed," Kathleen Parks with Kentucky Alliance said.

Shaquazz Allen, 19, Tyrone Booker Jr., 20, Jerron Bush, 21, and Craig Dean, 20, were arrested for a March 22 robbery - a robbery that took place the same night a group of more than 200 teens rampaged the city in a number of mob attacks. The violence spanned from the Big Four Bridge, to Waterfront Park to downtown convenience stores and restaurants.

Parents of the four men said Metro Police wrongly identified them as suspects, in an effort to make quick arrests.

"We believe they were racially profiled. Why? Because the first four African American males they came across, they arrested," Parks said.

However, a female victim of that night's violence identified Booker, Bush, Dean and Allen as the men who robbed her at gunpoint at a bus stop in a Shawnee Neighborhood.

According to a police report, the four suspects approached several people waiting for the bus and one of the men pulled out a gun, held it to the victim's head while demanding her purse.

Witnesses told police the suspects left the scene and headed toward 39th St. Officers were on N. 39th St. when they said they saw four individuals matching the suspects' description sitting on the porch of a home where Bush lives. All four were taken into custody.

Of the four, Booker and Allen were already on home incarceration for separate incidents, but police said they believe the two were involved in a second crime committed on the same night as the robbery.

Police said it happened at First and Jefferson streets, where a female was struck in the face rendering her unconscious while in her car with her fiancé, and five children.

Booker and Allen are currently lodged at Metro Corrections and are being held on a $25,000 cash bond. Bush and Dean are under home incarceration - both of their bonds' are set at $5,000.

All four are charged with Robbery First Degree, which carries a penalty of 10 to 20 years incarceration if convicted.

"These boys, two of them were planning on going into the military. All of them had jobs," Parks said.
