
KASARGOD:  It’s been six years since the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, but it seems Kerala is yet to learn lessons from that unfortunate incident. The terrorists who executed the plan came from Karachi in a fishing boat, taking advantage of the fragile coastal security arrangements. In the light of this, the State Home Departments had been asked to beef up security measures and coastal security police stations were set up in all states having coastlines.

In Kerala, eight coastal police stations were set up in 2010, against the plan to have 16, to oversee the 580 km-long coastline.  The coastal police say, it is impossible to monitor the entire Kerala coast with eight police stations, as each police station has a jurisdiction of 70 kilometres on an average. The repeated pleas to open eight more police stations as planned could not find favour with the government.

Besides, the condition of the existing coastal police stations is pathetic as they lack adequate manpower, basic infrastructure and other necessary equipment.  A coastal police officer at Alappuzha, on condition of anonymity, said, “A good number of the 67 posts in the Coastal Police Station are lying vacant. We don’t have a boat driver, boat commander, special marine home guard, srank, and enough police officers. Moreover, we don’t have boats and other equipment to function smoothly.” The situation is the same in all the coastal police stations. None of themhave enough number of patrolling boats and most of the available patrolling boats are not operational.

Some police stations can’t even conduct regular sea patrolling due to the lack of fuel.  “We don’t conduct patrolling regularly but if we get any hint of threat, we do,” a police official at Kasargod police station told Express, citing lack of fuel as the reason.

“From January to March, we have not conducted patrolling as Matsyafed stopped supplying fuel, citing delay on our part in making payments. On repeated pleas, `5 lakh was sanctioned and we paid off the debt. But we stopped regular patrolling to save fuel for emergency,” said the officer. Experts warn that the delay in implementing proper security measures along the coast would invite danger. The Home Department had a plan to start two coastal police stations in Thiruvananthapuram and Kasargod and five each in Kollam, Alappuzha, Eranakulam, Kozhikode and Kannur, but nothing has been done so far. Coastal police complained that it is not possible to look after the entire coast with the existing stations.

“We have to manage over 80 km of coastline compromising much on coastal security. Our call for more police stations has not found favour with the government,” said Joshi B, CI of Alappuzha Coastal Police.
