
A MAN who is facing murder charges before the Regional Trial Court (RTC) confessed to the police that he gunned down and burned his girlfriend due to jealousy last May 6 in Barangay Acacia, Buhangin, Davao City.

The suspect identified as Danny Boy Cabrera, a 28-year-old tricycle driver and a resident of Barangay 76-A Bucana, admitted to the killing of his girlfriend, Emily Mendoza, in his sworn statement to Senior Police Officer 4 (SPO4) Efren Misamen of Buhangin police.

Cabrera, who was assisted by lawyer Marie Dinah Tolentino-Fuentes, told police: "I was the one who killed her. I was jealous. I shot her on her head. I collected first, all her personal belongings and thereafter, I put gasoline over her body and set her on fire."

The suspect also told police that after the incident, he proceeded to the Bolton Bridge where he threw the victim's personal belongings and the caliber .38 pistol he used to shoot the victim.

But the suspect claimed that his conscience bothered him thus, he confessed the crime to his sisters who facilitated his voluntary surrender to Superintendent Joel Consulta, former chief of the San Pedro police station.

Cabrera was briefly detained at the San Pedro police before getting endorsed to the Buhangin police station.

Prosecutor Maria Gemma Dabbay-Tambis, meanwhile, found probable cause to charge Cabrera, saying there was an "aggravating circumstance of abuse superior strength considering that a deadly weapon was used to kill a woman."

The case was raffled off to RTC Branch 17 but Judge Evalyn Arellano Morales is yet to schedule the arraignment of the suspect.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
