
The notorious hate preacher Abu Hamza is likely to die behind bars in a    maximum-security US prison after a New York jury on Monday night convicted    him of a series of terrorism charges.

The conviction marks the final stage of a 10-year battle to have Hamza    extradited from the UK and brought to trial in the US.

It is believed Theresa May, the Home Secretary, will now begin moves to strip    Hamza of his British citizenship, making him “stateless” and formally ending    his 34-year connection to the UK.

A jury sitting just half a mile from Ground Zero in Lower Manhattan found the    former imam of Finsbury Park mosque in north London guilty on all 11 counts    after a five-week trial. His charges related to organising a terrorist camp    in the US, hostage taking in Yemen and sending one of his followers from    London to train with al-Qaeda in Afghanistan.

Hamza, 56, looked forward impassively in the wood-panelled federal courtroom    as the verdicts were read, then bowed his head and sat back in his chair.    When his defence lawyer asked, “Are you OK?”, he simply replied: “Yes”.

He will be sentenced at a hearing on September 9, two days before the 13th    anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks on the United States by al-Qaeda.

The judge is expected to hand down a life sentence which he will almost    certainly serve in the federal “supermax” high-security prison in Colorado    that houses several other convicted terrorists.

Speaking outside court the jury foreman, a 44-year-old Xerox employee,    described Hamza as a "skilled orator," but said he seemed to have "embellished"    his testimony at times, Bloomberg reported. The foreman said: "I feel    he got a fair trial. There's no doubt in my mind about that."

The guilty verdicts are a major victory for British and US authorities and    followed a lengthy battle over his extradition from the UK which began in    2004 but which was only carried out in 2012. The verdict does, however,    raise questions for the security services. On Monday night it was claimed    that Scotland Yard and MI5 ignored warnings that Hamza was establishing an    international hub of terrorism in London as long ago as 1999.

Reda Hassaine, an Algerian paid by MI5 to spy inside the Finsbury Park mosque    said the mosque was in 1999 an “al-Qaeda guesthouse in London” from where    Hamza radicalised young men and sent them all over the world to carry out    jihad. He warned his handlers but they refused to take action, he claims.

Speaking from Algeria, where he still lives in fear of retribution from    al-Qaeda years after his role was exposed, Mr Hassaine said: “He was    emboldened and to my ever-growing frustration the British authorities were    taking little notice of my warnings. The security services seemed incapable    of putting it in its proper al-Qaeda context.

“They continued to view it as a little local skirmish by a clown,” he said.

Born Mustafa Kamel Mustafa in Alexandria, Egypt, on 15 April 1958, Abu Hamza    was the son of a naval officer and a primary school headmistress. He    initially studied civil engineering before leaving for England in 1979.

In London, one of his first jobs was as a nightclub bouncer. He married a    British woman who he says encouraged him to embrace Islam.

"I took time off from the clubs and I enjoyed it," he said at his    trial.

Throughout the 1980s and 1990s Hamza supported the struggle in Afghanistan    against the Soviets before he travelled to Bosnia to support Muslims against    Christian Serbs during the break-up of the former Yugoslavia.

In 1997 he joined the Finsbury Park mosque.

Hamza built a reputation as one of Britain’s most prominent radical imams at    the Finsbury Park mosque. Prosecutors told the jury that he used the mosque    as the base of operations for a global terror network.

His fiery sermons drew high-profile militants such as Richard Reid, the Briton    who tried to blow up a jetliner in 2001 using a bomb hidden in his shoe, and    Zacarias Moussaoui, one of the 9/11 plotters. Both men are already serving    life sentences in the “supermax” prison.

Hamza was convicted of three groups of charges. The jury agreed with    prosecutors that he assisted rebels in Yemen who took 16 tourists hostage in    1998 in an incident that ended in the deaths of three Britons and an    Australian.

He was found guilty of providing material support to al-Qaeda by sending cash    to the group and dispatching a follower from Finsbury Park for jihad    training in Afghanistan in 2001. He was also convicted of trying to set up a    terrorist training camp in Oregon in 1999. He had denied all the charges.

Jeremy Schneider, a lawyer for Abu Hamza, told jurors in closing arguments    that the government was attempting to convict his client for his speeches.

The judge Katherine Forrest refused to allow the defence to bring before the    jury their claim that Hamza was secretly working with MI5 and Scotland Yard    as an intermediary to calm tensions in the Islamic community in Britain.

Although lead defence lawyer Joshua Dratel declined to discuss the MI5 claims    after the verdict as the judge’s ruling is likely to be the subject of an    appeal, he said that Hamza believed that he was subject of a “bait and    switch” by the British authorities – implying that the cleric believed the    Government had changed its approach to him.

“Everyone knew exactly what he was doing,” said Mr Dratel. “He was an open    book but when he came out against the Iraq war, they changed dramatically.

Mr Dratel later confirmed Hamza would appeal, telling the Wall Street Journal    outside court: "It was not about the evidence but about a visceral    reaction to the defendant."

New York's chief federal prosecutor Preet Bharara hailed the conviction of "a    notorious terrorist".

He said: "The defendant stands convicted, not for what he said, but for    what he did. Abu Hamza was not just a preacher of faith, but a trainer of    terrorists."

Former British home secretary David Blunkett said: "This has been a very    long journey to obtain justice, and to ensure that someone who has been so    adept at avoiding the just penalty for his extensive activities is at last    being brought to book.
