
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

1 Commissioner out: A police commissioner in Wolfeboro, N.H., has resigned after he admitted using a racial slur to describe President Obama. Robert Copeland , 82, resigned Sunday night, putting to rest a controversy that drew national attention and sparked impassioned debate in the resort town of 6,300. Copeland admitted using the slur, preceded by an obscenity, while he was at a restaurant in March. A resident overheard him and complained to town officials when she learned that he was a police commissioner. Copeland refused to apologize.

2 Bomb threat: A judge has set bond at $10,000 for a woman accused of calling bomb threats in to a commencement ceremony at Quinnipiac University in Connecticut to keep her family from learning that she was not graduating. The former student, 22-year-old Danielle Shea , was arrested Sunday in a cap and gown. Police say Shea didn't attend the university this year, but her mother paid thousands of dollars she thought was for her daughter's education.

3 Not the Coast Guard : Former U.S. Sen. Scott Brown 's half brother was sentenced Monday to one year and one day in prison for pretending to be a Coast Guard officer as he stopped boaters off the Connecticut coast, prosecutors said. Bruce Brown , 47, was sentenced Monday in federal court in Bridgeport. He pleaded guilty in February to impersonating a law enforcement officer and falsifying a military discharge certificate.

4 Protester jailed: An Occupy Wall Street protester who became a cause celebre for activists after she was charged with assaulting a police officer was sentenced Monday to 90 days in jail, with a judge saying a protest is no excuse for an attack. Cecily McMillan apologized for injuring the officer but defiantly proclaimed her innocence as she was sentenced. She could have been sent to prison for seven years. More than 171,000 people had signed an online petition asking the court for leniency.

5 Late diploma: When Massachusetts Rep. Joseph Kennedy agreed to deliver a commencement address at the University of Virginia Law School, he didn't realize he'd be receiving a diploma. At the end of Sunday's ceremonies, Kennedy was presented with the diploma his great-uncle, the late U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy , earned from the school in 1959. Ted Kennedy skipped commencement because he was helping run his brother John's presidential campaign.

6 Tragic accident: Authorities in San Diego say a married man and woman in their 80s were killed when he backed a pickup truck over her then was hit by the truck himself as he scrambled to help her. The San Diego County medical examiner said Monday that Setsuko Yada , 80, was hit by her 87-year-old husband as he was trying to park their truck Sunday night. The man, whose name has not been released, then got out in what appears to have been an attempt to help his wife and was hit by the truck himself.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
