
EVERY two years police would release a new computer-aged image of what Cara Cox would look like.

Cara was aged eight when she was abducted by her dad Aaron Cox from her mother Jodie Borchert in Deltona, Florida , in August 2009.

Borchert had legal custody of Cara with Cox having the right see his daughter on weekends.

Cara and Cox disappeared after Borchert dropped her daughter off at his home in Deltona, the Orlando Sentinel reported.

Borchert reported Care missing immediately.

Using the most up-to-date pictures of Cara that her mother could provide, together with pictures of other family members, NCMEC investigators released digitally age-progressed pictures of the girl every two years.

The most recent photograph shows what Cara would look like today and it was posted on her mum’s Facebook site on May 12.

Every year passed without a single viable lead, with no hope of finding the girl, until last Monday when the most recent picture of how Cara would look went out on social media.

That day, the NCMEC received an anonymous call. Cara was in Mexico.

For the next five days Volusia County Sheriff deputies worked with the US Marshals Service, local prosecutors, Mexican authorities and an international-fugitive task force to find Cara and bring her home.

After days of searching, officials found the girl in remote mountains in Hidalgo state , Mexico.

Volusia County Sheriff’s said Cox had no ties to Mexico and he and his daughter were living by fake names. Those names have not yet been revealed.

Cox was arrested without incident and Cara was given an American passport and flown home yesterday. She would have met her new sister, baby Nora, who was born after her abduction.

Cox has been charged with interference with child custody and has been extradited to Miami. He will be moved shortly to Volusia County, where the abduction took place.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
