
The Atwimahene, Nana Antwi Agyei Brempong II, has presented a Nissan vehicle and two motorbikes to the Atwima Takyiman Police Station in the Ashanti Region as his contribution towards the fight against crime in the area.

The donation was also to aid the police in their work In addition, the chief presented a stand-by electric power generator, a flat screen computer, a printer and accessories to the police.

He had bought them from his personal resources and contributions of some individuals, including the Ashanti Regional Police Commander, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCOP) Nathan Kofi Boakye, and the Ashanti Regional Minister, Dr Samuel Sarpong.

Atwima Takyiman and its surroundings have lately been under attack from armed robbers, necessitating that the police be supported and security in the area tightened.

The Atwima Takyiman Police Station, inaugurated in April 2014, is a new establishment and is under the jurisdiction of the Asokwa Divisional Police Command.

While presenting the items, Nana Agyei Brempong commended all whose contribution had made the purchasing of the items possible.

He was hopeful that the gifts would, to a large extent, enable the police to combat crime in the area.

DCOP Kofi Boakye, for his part, praised the Atwimahene for his support and encouragement to the police. He used the occasion to urge other chiefs to emulate Nana Brempong’s example.

The Ashanti Regional Police Commander charged the police personnel at the Atwima Takyiman Police Station to ensure the proper maintenance of the items, opining that it was “the only station in the region with its own patrol vehicle and motorbikes”.

He pledged the continuous support of the police to the people, as well as their readiness to combat crime in the area and the region as a whole.

DCOP Kofi Boakye also urged the chief to facilitate the inauguration of a community watchdog committee to assist the police to maintain security.

Dr Samuel Sarpong urged the people of Atwima Takyiman to co-operate with the police and give them their maximum support.
