
If you’re lucky, you may know of a church that has planted and cultivated a campus ministry. But have you ever heard of a campus ministry planting a church? In L’viv, Ukraine, that’s exactly what has happened. An interdenominational college fellowship called Youth to Jesus is spilling across traditional age limits. Graduating participants who don’t want to lose their faith connections have helped to plant St. John’s United Methodist Church.

Two years later, the new church is flourishing with about 30 members and a vibrant Sunday School program. They have an inspiring pastoral team and strong lay leadership. The congregation partners with three United Methodist missionaries, as well as Nicholas Haigler and Katie Steele . These two Mission Interns are working to nurture new members and new programs at both the church and the campus ministry.

L’viv is a city with many faith communities, but most people belong to the Ukrainian Orthodox or Greek Catholic churches. According to the CIA World Factbook , only about 2.2% of the citizens in Ukraine are Protestant. Because they make up a religious minority, Nicholas says that some church members “face severe judgment from their peers and families.” For this reason, the stakes are high for newcomers at St. John’s United Methodist Church.

At weekly campus ministry worship services, Katie says that communion is rarely served because “the idea of an open table is still so new to them.” For example, when Katie offered the bread and wine to one girl last month, the girl looked her in the eyes and said, “I’m scared.” Katie says, “I quietly instructed her in the method of intinction,” which means dipping the bread into the cup, “and gave her a gentle squeeze on the arm.” After the girl received communion, Katie prayed with her--it was the first time that girl had ever prayed with another person.

“It was a reminder for me,” Katie says, “that religion here is so steeped in tradition and has become so individualized that the concept and practice of community in worship is often a foreign concept to our students.” It may be a foreign concept, but it’s also a powerful one: that girl has since become an active and regular member of the fellowship. To Katie, this success story represents “the first real breakthrough I felt I had with any of our students,” she says. Nicholas reports similar breakthroughs through tea, conversation, and simple persistence.

There are benefits, though, to moving halfway across the world. Katie feels more independent now. Nicholas says, “Being in Ukraine has helped me extend my bubble of friendliness.” His time abroad is helping him to identify his strengths and discern God’s call in his life. “Mostly,” says Katie, “I’m just more aware of the fact that people are people no matter where you go.” Their ability to spread the Good News across linguistic and cultural barriers shows that people everywhere are susceptible to the love of God and the power of community.

You can donate through The Advance to help support Nicholas and Katie in their continued ministry.

Nicholas Haigler attends a Prayer "Pyro" Night for the church and student center in L’viv, Ukraine.
