
Dr. Ed Trimmer, executive director of the Cal Turner, Jr. Center for Church Leadership, introduces Erline Patrick of Fayetteville to the Jubi-lee Dinner audience as she is presented the 2014 Servant-Leadership Award at Martin Methodist College. Patrick has been serving the com-munity for more than seven decades.

Fayetteville’s Erline Patrick stepped to the podium as the 2014 Servant Leader Award recipient at her alma matter and immediately addressed Martin Methodist College President Ted Brown.

“Dr. Brown, I just want to let you know that had I not gotten a scholarship to come to Martin in 1939 during the Great Depression, I would have not gone to college,” said the 1941 graduate, who went on to earn degrees at Middle Tennessee State University.

“Thank you for all that Martin College has done for me; I can never, never repay Martin,” said Mrs. Patrick, 90, who smiled as Dr. Ed Trimmer, executive director of the Turner Center for Church Leadership, introduced her to the Jubilee Dinner audience on Friday, May 2, as “Miss Martin of 1939,” one of the many honors she received during her two years at what was then a two-year junior college.

She certainly doesn’t need to repay Martin Methodist College, after all, her life over the past seven decades has been the embodiment of giving back and serving others.

A resident of Fayetteville and a member of First United Methodist Church of Fayetteville, she spent 37 years teaching, most of those years in the Fayetteville City School System. Even after her retirement, however, she continued reaching out to others, working with the Adult Education program at Motlow State Community College, where she taught English as a Second Language (ESL) to foreign-born students, helping adults get their General Education Development (GED) degree and assisting English students in the Motlow College Writing Lab.

Her service wasn’t limited to the classroom, however. She was involved in her community, serving on the Fayetteville City School Board, a 14-year tenure as an alderman on the Fayetteville Board of Mayor and Alderman, eight years on the Fayetteville Public Utility Board, 25 years on the board of the local public library, a member of the Chamber of Commerce and her long service to the Alpha Kappa Club, a literary club that provides scholarships to local students. In addition, she has taught Sunday school at her church since 1953.

“At 90 years young, she is still one of the most active, passionate and responsible members in the First United Methodist Church in Fayetteville,” says Reba Seals, a 1968 graduate of Martin, who serves as secretary of the Alumni Council and nominated Mrs. Patrick for the award. “She grew up on a farm in Franklin County during the Great Depression and learned the values of saving, of hard work and of doing one’s best with what was available, to benefit all. These ‘life lessons’ have served Erline well during her long and active career. The attributes of both mercy and servant leadership are clearly evident in Erline’s choice of teaching as her life’s work.

Mrs. Patrick and her late husband, Harold, had two sons, Don and Gary, and two grandchildren. She was the fourth recipient of the Servant Leader Award since its creation in 2011.
