
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

Visalia police say a mother walked into a substance abuse center, leaving her 2-1/2-year-old daughter alone in a locked car.

A Visalia mother is in jail for leaving her toddler in a locked car with the windows up, according to authorities.

The car was parked outside of a substance abuse center on South Court Street and Walnut Avenue in Visalia.

Just after 8 a.m. Monday, Visalia police say Lisa Weis, 31, walked into the substance abuse center, leaving her 2-1/2-year-old daughter alone, parked in a locked car. Officers say she was left inside for a prolonged period of time, and once they made contact with her, they noticed she was under the influence.

"The fact that she was intoxicated, the fact that she left the child unattended inside this locked vehicle -- she was arrested and she was charged with child endangerment," said Sgt. Ozzie Dominguez with the Visalia Police Department.

People who work nearby were shocked by the incident. One woman says she saw something alarming inside the car.

"I seen a little girl in the car seat. Next to the little girl there was like five, six bottles of can of beer -- the 24 oz.," said Alejandra Araujo.

Police say it's fortunate Monday morning's weather was mild. As we get closer to summer, they say the inside of a car can get hot quickly.

To test how hot it gets inside a parked car, Action News placed a thermometer inside a news van. It said 78 degrees. After 20 minutes, the thermometer said 95 degrees.

Imagine how hot it will get when temperatures are in the 90s. That was the case last Saturday in Visalia when police arrested David Ruiz, 33, for leaving his baby boy locked in his car with the windows up at a Save Mart shopping center. People nearby called police after they saw the child hot, sweating and in distress.

"They did have to break a window to access the child on that occasion. The child was luckily found to be still in good condition," said Dominguez.

The child who was left in the car on Monday morning is fine. Officers stress never leave your children alone in a parked car.
