
Colombian authorities have arrested the driver of a bus that crashed and killed 31 children.

The youngsters burned to death on Sunday after the bus caught fire and exploded in the north of the South American country as they returned from church services.

Another 25 people including one adult were seriously burned in the blaze in Fundacion, a town in the department of Magdalena, according to the Red Cross.

‘The driver has been arrested, he turned himself in to authorities and we expect him to explain himself at a hearing this morning,’ a local police spokesman said.

The driver had initially fled the scene, and angry locals went to his home and threw rocks at his windows.

Investigators are looking into a number of potential causes of the crash, which prompted President Manuel Santos to travel to the scene and offer his condolences.

Among the possibilities being explored is that the driver used contraband petrol to refuel the bus and that this may have led to the explosion.

Red Cross official Cesar Uruena said on Sunday the injured – taken to area hospitals – suffered second and third-degree burns, and many were in critical condition.

The children aboard the bus were between the ages of one and eight and returning home after a religious service, Fundacion Mayor Luz Stella Duran told reporters.

Magdalena police said the blast happened around noon and the fire was so intense they had problems determining the number of casualties.

Duran said survivors reported the bus driver had been handling a container with petrol aboard the vehicle. Police initially blamed the fire on a mechanical problem.

Santos travelled to Fundacion after a final re-election campaign rally Sunday in Bogota ahead of the May 25 presidential vote.

‘The entire country is in mourning for the death of these children,’ he said upon arriving in Fundacion, accompanied by his wife.

Santos said the government would pay for all hospital and funeral expenses relating to the accident.

The bus, which was being used by an evangelical church group, caught fire one block away from the church where the children had earlier attended services.

More than 162,000 people have been killed in Syria since the conflict broke out in March 2011, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says.

The Britain-based monitoring group, which relies on a network of sources on the ground, said on Monday it had documented the deaths of 162,402 people.

Among them were 53,978 civilians, including 8607 children.

The group said 42,701 members of the armed opposition had been killed, including more than 13,500 fighters from jihadist groups like al-Qaeda affiliate al-Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant or ISIL.

The new toll includes 61,170 regime forces, 37,685 of them from the military, and 23,485 members of a pro-regime militia.

The Observatory also documented the deaths of 438 members of Lebanon’s Hezbollah movement, which is fighting alongside the regime, and 1224 other non-Syrian pro-regime fighters.

The toll also includes 2891 unidentified people whose deaths the Observatory has confirmed without being able to record their identities.

The last toll from the Observatory, issued at the beginning of April, stood at just over 150,000 people.

The conflict in Syria erupted in March 2011, with peaceful anti-government protests that the authorities responded to with force.
