
Dallas County’s probation officers did not follow court or department policies more than two out of three times when handling “technical violations” by probationers, according to a preliminary draft of an audit obtained by The Dallas Morning News.

The audit conducted by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice was requested by Dallas County judges last year after the discovery that egregious violations by probationers putting the public at risk were not reported to the courts. Among the breaches previously reported by The News were drunken driving and repeatedly testing positive for alcohol and drugs such as cocaine and PCP.

The preliminary audit, issued in April, found that county probation officers failed to follow the policies in 70 percent of the cases with violations. The final report could be issued as soon as this week.

Michael Noyes, the head of Dallas County adult probation, said he doesn’t believe the numbers in the state’s draft report are accurate. He said auditors from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice may have confused strict policies that apply to probationers only in certain court programs and applied them to all probationers.

Noyes said it is also possible that decisions not to follow the policies were made by judges — not his officers.

Auditors declined to comment on the preliminary draft through a spokesman for the agency. But the report itself said the lack of a standardized format in the case files, as well as incomplete data, made it difficult to determine if violations were properly handled.

Technical violations include testing positive for drugs, missing an appointment or not paying probation fees — but do not include violations for committing new crimes.

Probation officers respond to technical violations depending on their severity and frequency. They are usually handled by the probation department with additional treatment or community service or a reprimand. Severe and frequent violations, however, can result in an appearance before a judge who can order prison time.

There are about 47,000 people on probation in Dallas County. Auditors reviewed 533 random probation cases garnered from the county’s 17 felony and 13 misdemeanor courts. The audit will help determine compliance with violation and sanction policies and training, as well as determine an auditing process for the future.

State District Judge Tracy Holmes said she would not be shocked if the final report shows a low compliance rate. The News reported last summer that Holmes’ anger at the number of unreported violations prompted the judges to request the audit.

In addition to the random cases, auditors also reviewed 36 cases from Holmes’ court, in part because the probation issues were more apparent there. All but two had technical violations; of those, only 24 percent were properly handled in accordance with court or probation department policies.

In one case reported by The News, Holmes revoked a man’s probation in July and sentenced him to the maximum 10 years in prison for his third DWI. The man had repeated violations while on probation, but the judge was not informed of his missteps until after he had tested positive for alcohol more than 30 times. The man saw eight probation officers in 18 months, a number both Holmes and Noyes acknowledge is unacceptable.

As a result of the probation problems in her court, Holmes has adopted a zero-tolerance policy for drug violations and for not attending court-ordered treatment programs. But she said last week that she still sees the same problems.

Noyes said his staff found the new technical violations as a result of internal auditing practices put in place last year after problems surfaced.

Holmes runs a program for defendants on probation for DWI. Judges and probation officials agree that those on probation for DWI have the highest risk to reoffend and endanger the public.

State auditors recommended a bevy of changes to help the probation department handle technical violations, improve training and do a better job of record keeping. Noyes said that some of the recommendations — such as improving the department’s training manual and the way it conducts internal audits — are either underway or completed. He said he wants to see the state agency’s final report before making a decision about other recommendations.

One potential change the audit may bring is a standardized policy from judges about how probation officers should respond to technical violations. Both judges and probation officials have expressed interest in such a plan. That policy would serve as a basic standard for what should happen, but judges would still have the flexibility to add or subtract their own restrictions.

Except for the few specialized court programs, such as veterans court or the DWI and prostitution court, only Holmes has a policy to tell probation officers how to respond to violations. In all other courts — including the 17 felony courts — probation officers follow their own department’s policies.

Follow Jennifer Emily on Twitter at @dallascourts.

- Add pertinent emails about cases into the probationer’s main file. Currently, some important emails are often omitted.

- Document all appearances by a probationer before a judge.

- Better inform the judges about the policies for sanctioning probationers with technical violations.

- Develop standard auditing forms and follow up with another audit when problems are found.

- Eliminate a policy that allows probation officers to work from home.

- Update probation department manual.

- Ensure probation officers’ ongoing policy training is more timely. In some cases, months pass before all officers are trained.

To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .
