
A Clayton County man has filed a formal complaint against Clayton police for injuries he says he received when police shoved him face-first into the brick wall of his home.

An officer thinking Dhoruba Bin-Wahad was a burglar who was lying about the presence of a fellow burglar in the house tried to arrest him as he moved into the house he’d just rented.

Video of the May 2 incident taken from a neighbor’s cell phone shows police officers forcefully pulling Bin-Wahad from a seated position on his front porch, pushing him up against the wall, then forcing him onto the ground with one arm behind his back.

He can be seen hitting the wall about two minutes into the video.

Bin-Wahad said he told police he was moving into the home he had just rented in the 300 block of Downing Court near Jonesboro when the incident happened.

He said he suffered head and neck injuries, and police called to the home on a burglary report eventually determined that Bin-Wahad lived at the once-abandoned home.

According to Clayton County Police incident reports obtained by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, officers tried to arrest Bin-Wahad after he told them no one was in the home and they thought they saw someone.

“Bin-Wahad was detained due to him stating that no one was inside of the residence and officers on-scene advising otherwise,” Clayton County Police Officer R. Hall said in his supplemental incident report.

Police didn’t find anyone else inside the house, according to the reports.

Eventually, however, he said he relented and took occupancy of the home despite the incident.

“Several neighbors said they would write statements or testify to what they saw,” Bin-Wahad said.

Police were called to the home around noon on May 2.

According to the original police incident report obtained by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, a resident at a neighboring home told police that the home had just been remodeled and that she had never seen Bin-Wahad before.

The witness lived behind the home where Bin-Wahad was moving, and told police that she believed that he was a “pervert trying to look at her or her children from the vacant location through the woods,” the report says.

At least four officers responded to the call, police said.

One officer went to the rear of the home and an officer was at the front of the home. Initially, a third officer is seen in the video approaching the yard with his gun drawn. A fourth officer would eventually arrive on the scene, allowing one of the officers at the home to go inside.

Bin-Wahad had parked his SUV in the back yard and said he saw the officers walking around through the window.

Police said he tapped on one of the upstairs windows and an officer told him to come downstairs.

He told officers his ID was in his truck.

Three of the officers’ reports, including Hall’s, characterized Bin-Wahad as being noncompliant with their orders and abrasive.

“He was uncooperative and verbally argumentative,” Hall said in his supplemental report. “I observed Bin-Wahad take a bladed stance with his right side of his body away from Officer Washington while speaking to him.

Officer B. Washington said Bin-Wahad initially refused to sit down on the porch when instructed, and told them no one else was in the home when asked.

Washington went inside the home to check it out. One of the officers in the backyard, Hall’s partner Officer M. Dunn then said he thought he saw another person inside the home and announced what he saw over the radio, according to police reports.

Hall was standing over a now-seated Bin-Wahad, according to his own report, said he heard the radio announcement then grabbed Bin-Wahad’s wrist again.

Hall handcuffed Bin-Wahad and later said in the report that he did so because he thought Bin-Wahad had lied.

Dunn acknowledged that the person he reported seeing inside the home was in fact another officer, according to the reports.

Bin-Wahad was not arrested or charged in connection with the incident.

Bozeman said his offices investigated the incident and found a neighbor who had made the video.

Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
