
The Chicago police vice squad burst through the door of the Noble Square neighborhood massage parlor last summer and grappled with the shrieking manager as a security camera rolled.

Footage of the incident released Monday showed that Jianqing Klyzek was on her knees and cuffed behind her back within seconds. As Klyzek continued to scream, an officer standing behind the petite woman slapped her in the head while another threatened to hit her with a Taser “10 f---ing times.” Then another officer got in her face and began to rant.

The disturbing surveillance footage is at the center of a federal lawsuit filed last week accusing the Chicago Police Department and 10 officers of brutality and a hate crime. Police officers can be seen on the video searching for the surveillance tape, but they were unsuccessful because it was recorded off-site, according to the lawsuit.

The lawsuit alleged that police unjustly charged Klyzek with battery for allegedly biting and scratching officers as they tried to subdue her. The case was thrown out by a Cook County judge at a preliminary hearing, but the police then pursued a felony indictment in which one of the officers lied to a Cook County grand jury, according to the suit.

Sally Daly, a spokeswoman for State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez, said prosecutors dropped the felony charge in January after Klyzek’s attorney gave them a copy of the security video. Prosecutors didn’t know of its existence at the time of the grand jury investigation, she said.

Klyzek, who is from China but has been a U.S. citizen since 2011, did not attend the news conference because the incident and media attention surrounding the lawsuit “has been really scary for her,” Hamilton said.

The raid took place around 7 p.m. last July 31 when officers entered the Copper Tan and Spa in the 1000 block of North Milwaukee Avenue after an undercover officer working as part of a vice squad was allegedly offered sex for money. As they rushed past the reception desk, Klyzek said she screamed out as one of the officers grabbed her arm because she “thought she was being robbed or attacked,” the suit said.

“Mind your f---ing business before I shut this whole f---ing place down,” the officer alleged to be DiPasquale yelled.

Near the end of the 40-minute recording, Klyzek can be heard denying she’d hit any of the officers, saying she was just trying to protect herself.

Neither DiPasquale nor Messina could be reached for comment Monday.

Klyzek suffered a cut on her forehead as well as scratches on her neck and bruises on her right forearm and thighs, the suit said.

A separate federal lawsuit alleged that DiPasquale and Messina were among a group of vice squad officers accused of abusing an immigrant during a 2008 prostitution sting. In the 2009 suit, DiPasquale was accused of sticking a gun in one man’s face and slamming him into the dashboard of his car, breaking his nose.

The man’s attorney, Richard Dvorak, said Monday that the case was settled out of court for less than $100,000.
