
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

CLEVELAND, Ohio – Michael Giorgio, the CFO of Suarez Corporation Industries and right-hand man to the company's owner, Ben Suarez, pleaded guilty this morning to seven federal campaign financing charges.

The surprise guilty pleas came two weeks prior to the day Suarez and Giorgio were scheduled to stand trial in U.S. District Court. The plea bargain reached with prosecutors requires Giorgio to testify against Suarez if the North Canton entrepreneur decides to present his case for innocence to a federal jury.

Suarez's direct-marketing firm, Suarez Corporation Industries, also is charged in the case.

The plea bargain calls for Giorgio to receive from 2-1/2 to 3-1/2 years in prison, and up to a $250,000 fine, depending on his level of cooperation with prosecutors.

Suarez, 72, and Giorgio, 62, of Cuyahoga Falls, are charged with funneling more than $200,000 in illegal campaign contributions to Republican candidates U.S. Rep. Jim Renacci and Ohio Treasurer Josh Mandel in 2012.

According to the indictments, Suarez and Giorgio enlisted Suarez company employees and their wives to act as "straw donors" by illegally writing campaign contribution checks with no expectation of having to pay back the company loans.

Suarez, Giorgio and the company previously pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy to violate campaign finance laws, of making campaign contributions in the names of another, of making illegal corporate contributions, of making false statements, of conspiracy and obstruction of justice.

In pretrial documents, prosecutors said they expected Suarez and Giorgio to accuse the U.S. Attorney's office of waging a politically-motivated case against them. The prosecutors also said they expected the defendants to argue that the $200,000 in campaign contributions from Suarez company employees and their wives were actually loans from the company, that they expected to be repaid, and that company lawyers approved the scheme.

Renacci of Wadsworth received $100,000 from Suarez and about 21 of his employees and their spouses. Mandel received $105,000 from Suarez and others at his company. Both are Republicans, and later returned the questionable campaign cash. Neither was charged with any crimes.

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
