
Legalize marijuana ?  With marijuana being legal in Colorado and with very lenient medical marijuana laws in other states, the effects are being felt in the Mexican drug cartels and the gangs don’t like it, the Daily Kos reported Sunday.

In fact some pot farmers are no longer planting marijuana.  Farmers in the “Golden Triangle” section of Mexico’s Sinaloa state, which is the country’s most prolific pot growing region, say they are no longer planting pot. The wholesale price of pot has dropped from $100 per kilogram to less than $25.

The Washington Post reports that some of the cartels have turned to producing cheap heroin since they can't make much money anymore growing pot.

A 2012 study by the Mexican Competitiveness Institute found that American state legalization would cut into the drug gang business and take over about 30 percent of their market.

Retired federal agent Terry Nelson told Vice News: "Given the DEA’s relationship with Sinaloa, and the agency’s fury over legalized marijuana, it almost seems like the DEA wants to crush the legal weed market in order to protect the interests of their cartel friends. Almost."

Despite the numbers, drug enforcement officials are not supporting drug legalization.

The DEA's chief of operations, James Capra, told senators this January that legalization "scares us" and is "reckless and irresponsible."

And just this week, Florida Senator Marco Rubio came out against marijunna legalization, Breitbart.com reports.

"Here is the problem with that question in American politics," Rubio said. "If you say that you did, suddenly there are people out there saying it is not a big deal, look at all these successful people who did it.

"And I don't want my kids to smoke marijuana," he continued. "And I don't want other people's kids to smoke marijuana. I don't think there is a responsible way to recreationally use marijuana. On the other side of it, if you tell people that you didn't, they won't believe you. So it is just a worthless question."

Nearly half of the drug arrests the DEA made over the last 20 years were for marijuana.

Feel free to leave your opinion on the legalization of marijuana below.
