
MAGLAJ, Bosnia/KRUPANJ, Serbia: Bosnia said Monday that more than a quarter of its 4 million people had been affected by the worst floods to hit the Balkans in living memory, comparing the “terrifying” destruction to that of the country’s 1992-95 war.

The extent of the devastation became apparent in Serbia too, as waters receded in some of the worst-hit areas to reveal homes toppled or submerged in mud, trees felled and villages strewn with the rotting corpses of livestock.

The regional death toll reached at least 39, after the heaviest rainfall since records began 120 years ago caused rivers to burst their banks and triggered hundreds of landslides.

Lagumdzija said more than 100,000 houses and other buildings in  Bosnia were no longer fit to use and that over a million people had been cut off from clean water supplies.

His remarks threw into sharp relief the extent of the challenge now facing the cash-strapped governments of both  Bosnia and Serbia.

Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said the cost in  Serbia would run to hundreds of millions of euros, and that the death toll would certainly rise.

Even as the crisis eased in some areas, a new flood wave from the swollen River Sava threatened others, notably Serbia’s largest power plant, the Nikola Tesla complex, 30 km southwest of the capital Belgrade.

In Bosnia, one official said as many as 500,000 people had been evacuated or left their homes, the kind of human displacement not seen since more than a million were driven out by ethnic cleansing in the Bosnian war two decades ago.

At least 25,000 people have been evacuated in Serbia, but many more are believed to have left their homes of their own accord.

“We have some indications that a half a million Bosnians have either been evacuated or have left their homes because of flooding or landslides,” said Fahrudin Solak, the acting head of the civil defense service in Bosnia’s autonomous Federation.

Hundreds of volunteers in the Serbian capital filled sandbags and stacked them along the banks of the Sava. Police issued an appeal for more bags.

Djina Trisovic, a union spokeswoman at Serbia’s EPS power utility, said some workers at the  Nikola Tesla plant had worked three days with barely a break because relief teams could not reach the plant.

“The plant should be safe now,” she told Reuters.

The plant provides roughly half of Serbia’s electricity. Parts of it had already been shut down as a precaution, but it would have to be powered down completely if the waters breached the defenses.

Flooding had already caused considerable damage, estimated by the government at over 100 million euros ($140 million), to the Kolubara coal mine that supplies the plant.

Authorities in  Bosnia issued a fresh warning about the danger of land mines left over from the war and now dislodged by the flooding.

In the north Bosnian region of Maglaj, barely a house was left untouched by the waters, which receded to leave a tide of mud and debris.

In the village of Donja Polja, where Muslim Bosniaks returned in 1995 to homes burned or shelled during the war, Hatidza Muhic swept the mud from the hallway of her house. Dark lines on the walls indicated the water had reached some three meters high.

A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Daily Star on May 20, 2014, on page 10.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Bosnia said Monday that more than a quarter of its 4 million people had been affected by the worst floods to hit the Balkans in living memory, comparing the "terrifying" destruction to that of the country's 1992-95 war.

Lagumdzija said more than 100,000 houses and other buildings in Bosnia were no longer fit to use and that over a million people had been cut off from clean water supplies.

In Bosnia, one official said as many as 500,000 people had been evacuated or left their homes, the kind of human displacement not seen since more than a million were driven out by ethnic cleansing in the Bosnian war two decades ago.

At least 25,000 people have been evacuated in Serbia, but many more are believed to have left their homes of their own accord.

The plant provides roughly half of Serbia's electricity.
