
Police have identified the man who they said was killed by a drunk driver early Sunday morning. Friends told Local 10 that Tony Alvarez, 29, was on his way home from his overnight shift as a security guard at a condominium in South Beach when he was killed.

Investigators said Alvarez, who was soon to be married, was attempting to turn left onto Northwest 57th avenue from 7th street when his car was broadsided by a black SUV traveling south through the intersection.

Alvarez was pronounced dead at the scene. The driver of the black SUV was identified as Alexei Gonzalez, 36.

"Good morning Mr. Gonzalez.  You're being charged with DUI, DUI Manslaughter and leaving the scene of an accident with death," said the bond court judge Monday morning.

Police reports show Gonzalez tried to run away from the scene after the accident but witnesses helped police track him down.

According to arrest records, Gonzalez' blood alcohol content was .120, which is one and a half times the legal limit. Officers said he smelled of alcohol and his eyes were bloodshot.

He allegedly told officers he was just trying to find a phone to call his wife and that he wasn't at fault in the crash because his light was green. But in court, prosecutors said the red light cameras at the intersection tell a different story.

"The defendant's blood alcohol content was so high, because there is videotape evidence that clearly shows him running the red light, which is what caused the crash that led to the victims death," said the prosecutor in court.

Gonzalez is being held on $100,000 bond.

Copyright 2014 by Local10.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
