
Two Gettysburg men pleaded guilty to burglary charges May 15 for their involvement in a case that led to five arrests and more than $130,000 in stolen property.

Robert Joseph Voitek Jr., 19, and Zachary Hunt, 21, could each get more than 200 years in jail based on the potential maximum sentences for their multitude of felony burglary charges. Each charge comes with a prison term and up to a $25,000 fine.

Because of state guidelines, Hunt's and Voitek's pending sentences and fines will likely be less than the maximum, said Adams County District Attorney Shawn Wagner.

Voitek is also facing a restitution payment of more than $68,000 while Hunt's restitution is nearly $28,000, Wagner said. The restitution would be paid collectively by as many as three other co-defendants if they are found guilty, he said.

As of May 15, a plea deal could not be established for Voitek, said Gettysburg attorney Steve Rice, Voitek's legal counsel. Rice noted that his client was a victim of a sex crime in a pending case in northeastern Pennsylvania.

"It's by no means an excuse, but he turned to drugs as a coping mechanism and that can make people do things that just aren't them," Rice said. "These crimes aren't who he is. He comes from a good family and he is working to get his life back on track."

Voitek and Hunt are scheduled for an Aug. 19 sentence date. Pre-sentence investigations are required for both men prior to sentencing, said Adams County President Judge Michael George.

Rice said he wants George to look at all the circumstances and be fair when issuing Voitek's sentence.

Voitek and Hunt are co-defendants in a five-person case that spanned several Adams County municipalities. They were arrested in January as part of an investigation by the Pennsylvania State Police Forensic Unit and several other area police agencies that recovered jewelry, money, electronic devices, liquor and two guns with obliterated serial numbers.

Also arrested were Arik White, 21, and Japheth Miles, 23, both of Gettysburg, and Jared Slaybaugh, 18, of Aspers. Initial charges encompassed 19 burglaries between April and September of 2013 from residences in Carroll Valley Borough as well as Union, Cumberland, Hamiltonban, Butler, Straban, Tyrone and Liberty townships.

Slaybaugh pleaded guilty on April 21 to burglary and theft charges and could face anywhere from 11 and a half months to 30 years in prison. He is scheduled for sentencing on July 17.

White has a May 22 plea date.

Miles is scheduled to be arraigned on June 26. He was extradited to Pennsylvania in April after being arrested in Carroll County, Maryland, on a fugitive warrant. Miles is in Adams County Prison on $50,000 bail.

Mark Walters covers Adams County for The Evening Sun. Contact him at 717-637-3736 ext. 147.
