
BOGOTA: Colombians expressed horror Monday after 32 children burned to death when an overcrowded bus burst into flames and the driver fled the scene, pursued by a mob that stoned his house.

The driver turned himself to police as families sought to hunt him down following Sunday’s tragedy in which, according to a witness, the bus went up in flames as he refuelled it with a jerrycan.

The children, aged between three and 12 years old, were returning from evangelical church services in the small northern town of Fundacion. The driver lost two of his own children in the tragedy.

Fundacion Mayor Luz Stella Duran said another 20 were hospitalised. Most of the injured have second- or third-degree burns.

Residents of the northern town of Fundacion joined firefighters to extinguish the blaze, according to a video.

An inconsolable father slapped the bus’s charred remains and dropped to his knees before being pulled away by townspeople.

Residents raised white flags outside their house windows. The town’s mayor declared three days of mourning and banned alcohol consumption.

President Juan Manuel Santos, who rushed to the scene, said an investigation was underway while many denounced the accident as an example of Colombia’s poor enforcement of road safety.

Crews pulled small charred bodies from the wreckage and took them to the medical examiner’s office in the regional capital of Barranquilla to be identified — a task which could take days.

The driver gave himself up to police after townspeople hurled rocks at his home. He was due to appear at a court hearing to explain himself.

The prosecutor’s office said the driver lacked a license to drive and was under investigation. Transport Minister Cecilia Alvarez said the bus had lacked the authorization to provide services since 2012.

“It is an illegal vehicle that also lacked transport insurance,” Alvarez told RCN radio, adding that the initial investigations are leaning toward “driver recklessness.” The driver apparently used contraband gasoline to refuel the bus, the minister said.

An 11-year-old girl who lost two brothers told local media that the driver left the bus to refuel while his young charges remained on board.

The tragedy became a political issue ahead of Sunday’s presidential election, in which Santos is seeking a second term.

“It is not only the driver’s irresponsibility. It is also the lack of rigor and presence of the authorities,” she said.

Santos said he ordered national authorities to intervene more directly in road safety to ensure banned vehicles are not circulating, adding that such tasks are usually in the hands of municipal officials.
