
And our favorites last year – were still our favorites this year.

The Holton Wildcats carry on their rich tradition and look to build on their (27-1) record over the last two seasons.

The New York Yankees crushed three home runs to defeat the Royals on Monday night.

Some area high school faculty took a chill for a good cause Friday morning.

Washburn baseball named former player and assistant Harley Douglas the leader of the Ichabods.

We are learning more details about a fatal drowning from the weekend. 25-year-old Matthew Mann died after his boat sank Sunday afternoon on Tuttle Creek Lake.

Sunday, a fishing boat capsized on Tuttle Cove in Riley County. The three people on board fell into the water, no one was wearing a life jacket. Two of the passengers were rescued. But, 25-year-old Matthew Mann was unable to make it out of the water.

“As far as we can tell, it’s just an accident, it’s not being investigated as anything suspicious, there’s no crimes that we’re investigating, just a terrible and tragic accident,” said Mat Droge, with the Riley County Police Department.

According to Riley County Police, 25-year-old Matthew Mann’s body was found Sunday night at about 10 p.m., after emergency crews searched for him for 7.5 hours. The two other passengers, 22-year-old Jessica Regodos and 28-year-old Joshua Jacobs were pulled out of the water by a fisherman.

“Both of the other two passengers of the boat have since been released from medical treatment and they were able to assist police in the location of the body of Matthew Mann,” said Droge.

When the boat began sinking on Sunday, the water temperature was 56 degrees.

“This cold spring that we’ve had, the water temperatures are lower than normal, water temperatures at most of the lakes are in the mid to upper 50’s. Hypothermia sets in to a body in any water temperature under 75. And the lower the temperature, the hypothermia sets in,” said Brian McNulty, with the Army Corps of Engineers.

No one on the fishing boat was wearing a life jacket. The Army Corps of Engineers say life jackets can be what can keep a dangerous situation from turning catastrophic, an they are required to be on the boat at all times.

“The majority of the people that are in boating accidents don’t plan to get in the water. That’s why we encourage people to wear their life jackets. Of the ones that actually occurred, 90% of those were not wearing life jackets,” said McNulty.

This week is National Safe Boating week. For safety tips on the water, click here .

At approximately 3:12 p.m. on Sunday, the Riley County Police Department received an emergent call stating that a small fishing boat in the Tuttle Cove Park area of Tuttle Creek had capsized. Once on scene, police found that the boat, approximately 14 feet in length, was carrying 3 passengers, who were not wearing personal floatation vests, at the time of its sinking.

All three passengers were placed into the 59 degree water in an area where the depth is estimated to be 26 feet.

Two passengers, Jessica Regodos, 22, and Joshua Jacobs, 28, of Manhattan were rescued by a bystander who was able to pull them into his fishing boat. Regodos was subsequently transported to Mercy Regional for non-life threating serious injury. Jacobs was able to drive his personal vehicle to Mercy Regional.

A search for the third passenger was started immediately and members of Riley County Emergency Management, Riley County Fire, Riley County EMS, Manhattan Fire Department, US Army Core of Engineers, Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism, the Mission Township Water Rescue Team from Shawnee County as well as the Riley County Police Department participated in a coordinated search of the cove’s entrance into the lake for approximately 7.5 hours.

During the course of the search and rescue effort, the decision was made to begin a search and recovery operation due to the length of time the third passenger was thought to have been underwater.
