
SPRING HILL, Fla. - A search is underway for a person of interest in the death of a Hernando County school teacher.

The body of Lee Anne Shoeman was found today by officers who were asked to conduct a well-being check after she did not show up for work, according to the sheriff's statement.

Her body was found at 1267 Meredith Drive shortly before 8.a.m. Monday.

Shoeman was an English teacher at Central High School in Spring Hill.

The person of interest is Jerome Sheridan, 49.

"We do have some reports that the vehicle is south of here, seen south of here as late as early this morning, a little before rush hour in the Tampa area," said Hernando County Sheriff Al Nienhius. "Cause of death is definitely homicidal violence but I'm not going to speak anymore as to exactly what happened."

"She supported him. He made a little bit of money to fix his car up," said neighbor Bob Marinelli. "He didn't work and then he did all these odd jobs. I had him trim my hedges over here."

"I knew they had domestic problems but I didn't think it was that bad," said another neighbor, Jim Goldade.

Sheridan drives a white 1971 Pontiac GTO with black stripes down the side and no front fenders. The vehicle's Florida tag number is TJ7JN.

"He could be probably anywhere in Central Florida," Sheriff Nienhius said. "It's a pretty unique vehicle. It's going to be really hard to miss if somebody sees it."

Deputies advise the public not to make any contact with Sheridan.

At Central High School, news of Shoeman's death hit hard.

"The helper in the classroom just broke down. We were all wondering what happened," said Sean Morzowski , a student. "She was, I would say, one of the best teachers here."

Anyone with information is asked to contact Sergeant Phil Lakin of the Hernando County Sheriff's Office Major Case Unit at 352-754-6830.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
