
Security forces raided a truck and recovered a large quantity of weapons, ammunition and explosives in Balochistan’s Gulistan area near the Pak-Afghan border region on Monday, a private news channel reported.

Balochistan Home Minister Mir Sarfaraz Bugti alleged that neighbouring countries, including India and Afghanistan, were trying to carry out terror activities to weaken Pakistan.

He further claimed that Afhgan intelligence agencies had set up at least 34 insurgent camps in this regard.

Security forces claimed to have recovered 70 sacks of explosive materials, 45 prepared bombs, 200 detonators, 100 AK-47 rifles, nine Kalakov rifles, three G-3 rifles and 135 handguns from hidden compartments in the truck.

Bomb making and other equipment recovered included one hundred bundles of prima cord, 50 remote control detonators, sophisticated binoculars, sniper scopes and at least 2,000 rounds of ammunition.

Security sources said the weapons were being smuggled into Balochistan from Afghanistan to be used in terror activities across the country, especially in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.

So what are we waiting for? Seal the borders immediately and restrict all supplies into Afghanistan.

We cannot over emphasize the importance of shared cooperation between the regional partners. The U.S., Pakistan and Afghanistan are fighting a common war, and it only makes sense to combine our strength against those who are working to destabilize the region.

Kill the snake and their heads of BLA/BLF and BRA ,their military,political and intelligence agents within pakistan and outside of pakistan.

Show no mercy against this anti pakistani.They are blackmailing Pakistan in the name of deprivation in contrast to their threats,murders and terror against innocent pakistani's,army men and F.C personnels.There are black sheeps/hidden terror elements within the political parties and politcal arena of balochistan.Im a baloch but favours the killing and murder of terror elements within balochistan or elsewhere as no Muslim is allowed to kill their brothers this way.

Comments are closed.
