
The decision to fatally shoot an emu in a Plattsmouth park Friday eventually came down to one consideration – public safety.

“They are six feet tall and if cornered they can deliver a blow you may not survive,” said Plattsmouth Animal Control Officer Sue Baker.

About three weeks before the emu, Lucy, had escaped from Marvin Vogler’s farm near Louisville and was spotted in several areas in the county including Highway 75.

Vogler acquired Lucy and a male emu, Ricky, about 10 years ago.

The female emus can be more aggressive than the males, who actually sit on the eggs for eight weeks.

“I had a friend who had a female emu who killed the male and nearly killed another female,” Vogler said.

Lucy was surrounded at the farm with a six-foot fence. “She always walked the fence. She can hook her foot into the fence and hurdle over the top,” Vogler said.

Lucy had escaped the farm once or twice before, but she had never strayed farther than the neighbor’s property. Vogler had always been able to bring her back.

This time was different.

“Who would have ever expected she would go 20 miles?” Vogler said.

Her absence from the farm didn’t improve her temperament. “In the past three weeks, she has gotten even wilder. But who knows how many people or other animals have chased her?” Vogler said.

Emus are native to Australia and are also the second largest bird in the world. They can run between 40-60 miles per hour. Their primary predators in Australia are men and dingoes. If cornered, emus will use their clawed feet to deliver blows to their predators in the neck and chest area.

“Emus have three large toes at the end of each foot. At the end of each toe, they have long, sharp and very thick claws. They can rip a person open with their claws in a second. They are docile-appearing but they are also very dangerous,” Baker said.

Baker said the Cass County Sheriff’s Office asked Terry Grell to help bring Lucy in. Grell had caught the famous Ninja cow that was loose in Plattsmouth for three months in 2011.

Emus are able to make 180 turns in a few seconds. Their darting in and out and fast running speed make them difficult to keep up with.

Lucy found her way to Schilling Wildlife Management Area. “We hoped she would just stay there, but she ended up in somebody’s yard, then she ended up in Rhylander Park,” Baker said.

Rhylander is the most used park in Plattsmouth. Baker said on Saturday morning she drove by the park and saw a minimum of 50 children at the park.

Their next plan was finding a tranquilizer gun. Baker is certified to use the guns. “I called the zoo, but nobody got back to me. We called the Nebraska Humane Society but they do not loan out their equipment,” Baker said.

Even the tranquilizer gun wasn’t a sure answer to the problem. “It probably would have killed her. Birds are very sensitive to chemicals,” Baker said.

In the interim, the animal can become angry and defensive. Sometimes, the chemicals are too much for the target to handle. Tranquilizer guns have been used on emus before and the emus have died, Baker said.

Finally, a decision had to be made.

Vogler said everyone had exhausted the possibilities before putting Lucy down.

Copyright 2014 Fremont Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
