
The East Cocalico Township police force serving East Cocalico and West Cocalico townships, and Adamstown and Denver boroughs, may have to keep adding to its fleet.

In his police report May 15, East Cocalico's police Chief George Beever said the department may need to replace an additional vehicle.

Earlier in the year, the board approved the purchase of two SUV police vehicles. One is now in service, the other is expected to be in service next week.

Board members responding to Beever's report said they are happy with the new vehicles.

"They're good looking,” said Chairman Doug Mackley.

Later in the meeting, Mackley said the board will have to look closely at replacing the additional vehicle. What it all comes down to, Mackley said, is that vehicles aren't cheap.

Mackley said the current need for more patrol vehicles comes from a tight budget in prior years, when the township had put off buying vehicles. Police vehicles, he said, used to be replaced more regularly. Some of the current patrol vehicles now have up to 180,000 miles on the odometer.

"We rolled the dice the last couple of years. We were short on money," Mackley said. "It worked for a while, but it catches up."

The police department is also switching to a different Information Technology support provider.

Beever reported the department would like to hire EZ Solutions to handle IT systems. Beever said the department has used another provider, Distributed Systems Services, for years, but it's time for a change.

"They weren't providing the level of support we feel we need," Beever said. "We need somebody who is familiar with our records-management operations."

Mackley said the department has also asked for maintenance resources. He said the township's budget provides for about $3,000 annually, or several labor hours per week, and asked if that will be enough. Beever said the funding should be sufficient.

The board voted unanimously to allow the change.

For many years, the four municipal partners, East and West Cocalico, Denver and Adamstown, have shared police services. As part of a renewal of the joint force agreement, a police advisory board was set up to include officials and citizens from each municipality.

The next police advisory board meeting is planned for 7 p.m. Thursday, May 22, and the township building, 100 Hill Road, Denver.

• Board members voted to authorize work by Becker Engineering on a NPDES MS4 report to be submitted to the state Department of Environmental Protection in June.

• Supervisors vice chairman Alan Fry reported that he met with the Reamstown, Smokestown and Stevens fire chiefs to discuss plans for consolidation.

• Board members voted to advertise a meeting of the four municipal partners regarding the sale of a jointly owned property at 1975 N. Reading Road. The meeting is planned for 7 p.m. on June 24.
