
Turkish prosecutors on Sunday charged three people with reckless manslaughter over a mining disaster that left 301 dead and sparked fury at the government and company officials. Rescue operations ended on Saturday in the western town of Soma after the bodies of the last two trapped miners were retrieved following the country's worst ever industrial disaster.

Prosecutors said they have ruled out an electrical fault, which was initially believed to be the cause of the devastating coalmine blast.

A preliminary report into the disaster "suggested the fire could have been caused by coal heating up after coming into contact with air," prosecutor Bekir Sahiner told journalists, AFP reports.

This could have caused a massive amount of carbon monoxide to fill the mine.

"Twenty-five people have been ... detained, including the chairman of the company and three of them have been charged with reckless manslaughter," Sahiner said.

Six people have since been released and the others were still being questioned.

The Dogan news agency reported that those charged were plant manager Akin Celik and two mining engineers from mine operator Soma Komur.

The labour ministry also denied culpability, saying the mine had been inspected every six months.

The Milliyet newspaper claimed to have seen the preliminary report, which it said noted several safety violations in the mine, including a shortage of carbon monoxide detectors and ceilings made of wood instead of metal.

Turkish police on Sunday detained 24 people, including mining executives, suspected of negligence over the disaster that killed 301 people and sparked fury at the government and officials, local media reported, according to AFP. Rescue operations ended on Saturday after the bodies of the last two trapped miners were retrieved following the country's worst ever industrial disaster in the western town of Soma.

Dozens of prosecutors have been assigned to investigate the fire and explosion believed to have been sparked by an electrical fault at a private mine.

Among those detained is Akin Celik, general director of mine operator Soma Komur, NTV television reported. The suspects could face charges including manslaughter, it added.

Soma Komur has vehemently denied any negligence. "We have all worked very hard. I have not seen such an incident in 20 years," Celik said on Friday.

A group of rescue workers told NTV that a cave-in had occurred in the mine after the ceilings burnt down and collapsed due to the fire.

The Soma disaster has sparked a wave of fury against the government, adding to pressure on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan ahead of his expected run for the presidency in August.

On Saturday, at least 36 people, including eight lawyers, were arrested and held in a stadium in Soma after they attempted to make a statement. Some of the lawyers were beaten and injured by police.

Images of police firing tear gas and water cannon at thousands of protesters in Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir have also revived memories of the government's heavy-handed crackdown against nationwide protests in 2013.

A total of 787 people were inside the mine when the blast hit, Energy Minister Taner Yildiz said. Most of the victims died of carbon monoxide poisoning.

"I was very sad when I came here and I am still very sad," Yildiz told reporters before leaving Soma on Sunday, pledging support for the stricken families.

The disaster has added to the huge political pressure on Erdogan, whose Islamic-rooted party emerged triumphant from March 30 local elections despite a corruption scandal implicating key allies and last year's mass protests.

Turkish police on Sunday detained 18 people suspected of negligence in connection with this week's deadly mine disaster, including executives from the mine operator, local media reported, according to AFP. Rescue operations in the town of Soma ended on Saturday after the bodies of the last two trapped miners were retrieved following the country's worst ever industrial disaster, which claimed 301 lives.

Dozens of prosecutors have been assigned to investigate the fire and explosion believed to have been sparked by an electrical fault at a private mine in the western district of Soma.

Mine operator Soma Komur vehemently denied any negligence.

"We have all worked very hard. I have not seen such an incident in 20 years," its general director Akin Celik said. It was not clear whether Celik was among those detained.

A preliminary expert report on the accident obtained by the Milliyet newspaper pointed to several safety violations in the mine, including a shortage of carbon monoxide detectors and ceilings made of wood instead of metal.

The accident has triggered protests across Turkey, aimed at mine owners accused of ignoring safety for profit, and at Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan's government, seen as too close to industry bosses and insensitive in its response.

Police put the town of Soma on virtual lockdown on Saturday, setting up checkpoints and detaining dozens of people to enforce a ban on protests. Security in the town remained tight on Sunday.

Turkey on Saturday announced the final death toll from this week's devastating coal blast as 301, after retrieving the bodies of the last two miners trapped underground. "The rescue operation was carried out to completion. There are no miners left underground," Energy Minister Taner Yildiz told reporters in the western town of Soma, site of the country's worst ever industrial disaster.

Another 485 miners either escaped or have been rescued since the explosion struck on Tuesday, AFP reports.

The disaster has led to a surge of popular anger in Turkey, fuelled by accusations of negligence by mine operators and what many saw as a heartless response from the government.

A fire broke out on Saturday in part of a mine, where nearly 300 miners were killed in Turkey's worst ever industrial disaster, hindering efforts to find up to three workers still believed to be underground, the country's energy minister said.

Taner Yildiz told reporters that the bodies of 15 miners were retrieved overnight, bringing the death total to 299, and as many as three workers were still in the mine. They were unlikey to be alive, four days after an initial fire sent deadly carbon monoxide coursing through the mine.

"It is a localised fire but it is important and we have to take note of it," Yildiz said. "Naturally, until it is brought under control, we can't do anything about up to three workers (believed still there)."

As the fire started, rescue teams were seen leaving the mine in the western town of Soma while fire-fighting teams went in.

Anger swept through Turkey as the extent of the disaster became clear, with protests aimed at mine owners accused of ignoring safety in favor of profit and, at Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan's government, which is seen as being too close to industrial tycoons and insensitive in its reaction to the tragedy.

Riot police fired tear gas and water cannon to disperse several thousand protesters in Soma on Friday.

All rights reserved.
