
Officials are calling the death of Florence Beaulieu  suspicious. The Brockton mother of four was found dead in her Forest Avenue home.

BROCKTON – The four children of a Brockton mother found dead in her Forest Avenue home on Friday are now in state custody as investigators continue to probe her death.

A Brockton detective was seen on Sunday searching the grounds near 124 Forest Ave., where Florence Beaulieu, 37, was found dead, reportedly by her daughters two days earlier, on Friday afternoon. Officials have called her death suspicious.

Beaulieu’s family could not be reached for comment on Sunday.

The driveway and first-floor apartment where Beaulieu lived were still cordoned off with yellow police tape on Sunday. A religious candle burned on the front steps, next to pink and white flowers.

No arrests had been made by Sunday afternoon, and an autopsy is being done to determine the cause and manner of death, Assistant District Attorney Bridget Norton Middleton said Sunday.

“At this point it’s still under investigation,” Middleton said.

Middleton urged anyone with information about Beaulieu’s death to call Brockton detectives at 508-941-0234.

Beaulieu worked as a certified nursing assistant at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital-Milton, an 88-bed facility where Beaulieu was "highly respected" by her colleagues, a spokesman there said Monday.

Her Facebook page, under the name Florence St. Louis, lists her birthplace as Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Her relationship status on Facebook is "separated," after Beaulieu posted on the site that she was married on Jan. 11, 2013.

It was unclear Monday whether Beaulieu had previously sought a restraining order against anyone.

Shelley Bynoe-Simpson of Randolph, a former neighbor of Beaulieu, told The Enterprise on Saturday that she often heard fighting upstairs in the Randolph apartment where Beaulieu formerly lived for about two years.

A man whom Bynoe-Simpson described as Beaulieu’s husband would often yell at her and call her “all kinds of filthy names,” said Bynoe-Simpson, 58, a former Boston police officer.

On Friday, police were searching for a 2006 gray BMW driven by a Randolph man, reportedly the children’s father.

Mary-Leah Assad, a spokeswoman for the Department of Children and Families, said the state agency now has custody of Beaulieu’s children.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
