
Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 9:30 pm | Updated: 10:23 pm, Sun May 18, 2014.

Allowing online gambling through Pennsylvania's casinos could bring in $307 million annually to the state, according to a study commissioned by the Pennsylvania Senate.

The senate asked that potential gaming revisions be evaluated because of a leveling off and decline at some casinos and the expansion of gaming in surrounding states.

New Jersey, Delaware and Nevada now allow online gambling.

Of the Lancaster County lawmakers who could be reached for comment, only Democrat Rep. Mike Sturla favors legalizing online gambling.

And it's not just because of the money, the Lancaster said.

"It really is a situation where, in some cases, it’s more of, at least in my perception, a consumer protection issue," he said.

Sturla said he wasn’t convinced of online gaming’s revenue as projected in Philadelphia-based Econsult Solutions’ study , but he said the idea was worth looking into.

Even though Internet gambling is illegal, he said, people are playing it an it's a business in the hundreds of millions of dollars, he said.

And players can be scammed — with no recourse, Sturla said, noting someone ripped off in illegal online gambling isn’t likely to report that to police.

As for the argument that allowing online gambling would lead to more people addicted to gambling, Sturla said those people are already gambling online.

He favors existing casinos controlling online gambling should it be legalized. People could game from home; they would just have an account with a Pennsylvania casino, he said.

And online gaming could yield immediate and trackable revenue, he said.

Someone winning small amounts of money at a casino on, say, slots, may not file taxes, but such winnings could be tracked with online gambling, he said.

Currently, it appears that just one bill in Harrisburg would legalize online gambling. It’s part of a larger bill dealing with gambling that State Rep. Tina Davis, D-Bucks County, introduced in April .

Lancaster County lawmakers against online gambling cited constituent opposition, a belief that using gambling proceeds isn’t good budget policy and moral concerns.

"This is just another opportunity to give people a chance to part with their money. This time, it just gives them a chance to do it at home," said West Donegal Township Republican Rep. Dave Hickernell.

Manheim Republican Rep. Mindy Fee said she'd also oppose any legislation.

Republican Rep. Bryan Cutler of Peach Bottom said he doesn't think the state can solve its financial problems with gambling.

"My concern is, we have another form of gaming that's going to slice down the revenue pie," he said. "… I don't necessarily know that it brings new money in."

And despite predictions that allowing bars to run small games of chance would bring in perhaps $100 million, only 28 applications have been received as of last week and just 18 approved, he said.

Republican Rep. Gordon Denlinger of Narvon cited moral concerns.

"... My concern is driven by the societal, personal impacts that gambling brings … I believe it is cynical to fund our government through the breeding of what we commonly call vice," he said. "The impacts on individuals and families can be devastating."

Republican Rep. Steve Mentzer of Manheim Township also cited societal problems.

"Internet gambling opens the door to a slew of devastating social, economic and law enforcement consequences," he said, nor was he optimistic about how much money it could bring in anyway.

"We only need to look to New Jersey to see online gaming has not provided anything close the economic benefits proponents claimed," he said.

Sen. Lloyd Smucker said he’d voting no on any legislation to come to a vote.

"I have always believed, and continue to believe, that trying to raise revenues through the expansion of gambling is not healthy public policy," the West Lampeter Township Republican said.

"While I understand that argument, I still don't think that it makes sense for us to do it here," he said. "I think raising money through gambling is a regressive way to raise funds."

Still, he said, $300 million is attractive and he thinks the idea will be looked at.

"It's shaping up to be a very, very tough budget and we'll be looking at just about any idea that comes along," he said. "I think that will give the issue some momentum."

And he realizes that despite local opposition, online gambling could well become legal here.

"Oh, sure. All the rest have," he said.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
