
A pensioner was attacked and robbed while tending his mother’s grave on the anniversary of her death.

Police have branded the crime “an appalling act of cowardice” and launched a manhunt for the offender.

The 68-year-old victim was at his mother’s graveside in Gorton Cemetery at around 12.30pm on Saturday lunchtime when he was jumped.

A man, believed to be in his late 30s, grabbed him from behind and punched him repeatedly in the face. He then snatched a wallet from his victim’s back pocket and ran off through a hole in the fence and down a cycle path.

The offender is described as white, stocky, and aged between 35 and 40. He was about 5ft 8in tall and had short brown hair and a ‘scruffy’ appearance.

He was wearing blue stonewash jeans and a navy jumper.

Det Con Michael O’Connor said: “The victim was tending to his mother’s grave on the anniversary of her death when inexplicably the offender has attacked and robbed him from behind. To attack a man at a graveside is an appalling act of cowardice and the actions of the person responsible smack of absolute desperation.

Anyone with information should call police on 0161 856 3521, or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

Star cameos from Ricky Hatton, Rowetta and Bez in the Box Bottom World Cup song Our Telly's Bigger than Your Telly filmed at The Printworks.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
