
POLICE investigations will continue this week at the house of a man arrested on suspicion of murdering Claudia Lawrence, said a force spokesman.

Forensic officers have been at the property on Burnholme Grove where they have carried out several searches since the arrest of former lab technician Michael Snelling, 59, on suspicion of murdering Claudia, who went missing from York in March 2009. He was later released on conditional bail.

The North Yorkshire Police spokesman said other property inquiries connected to the investigation had been completed. Police have also been searching a house on Hollywell Road in North Shields where Mr Snelling was arrested on Tuesday and which was the home of his elderly mother until she recently moved into a care home.

As the searches continued Claudia's father Peter Lawrence spent the weekend helping other families with missing relatives.

He was at the annual Miles for Missing People run on Clapham Common in London, along with the parents of missing Madeleine McCann, Kate and Gerry McCann, and Rachel Elias, sister of former Manic Street Preachers guitarist and lyricist Richey Edwards.

Now in its fifth year, the event raises money for the Missing People charity to support families of loved ones who are missing.

Mr Lawrence who sounded the starting horn as runners set out on 10km and 3km runs said it was an opportunity to join those suffering with the uncertainty of a missing loved one, and to support the charity.

"I think it's always a poignant event coming here because you see all these people with 'missing' shirts on them with posters and you just think this really needs to be out there. We all need to be together, we are all a big family.

"I regularly meet other people with missing members of their family, and it's just being able to be together in the knowledge we all talk the same language.

"Even if Claudia is found I will still be here for the sake of other people and the sake of the charity."

Claudia has not been seen since she left work as a chef at the University of York in March 2009.

The Miles for Missing People run was part of its May "forget me not" campaign.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
