
Police said phony solicitors may be targeting people who live in a northwest Columbus neighborhood.

Residents in the Quarry Pointe subdivision said solicitors are going door-to-door claiming to be collecting donations for the March of Dimes.  Residents are concerned they may not be affiliated with the organization and are pocketing the money instead.

Steve Weber said his fiancee became concerned when a man knocked on the door last Saturday morning.

"Somebody had come and rang the doorbell.  She didn't recognize him so my advice was, hey, don't answer it," he said.

Weber learned the stranger then went to his neighbor’s house and asked for a donation.

Several other residents posted concerns about suspicious solicitors on the Quarry Pointe community Facebook page.

Doug Dildine said he questioned a man who knocked on his door.  "I basically asked for their vendor’s license or their permit and the guy failed to show me anything like that at all and of course he got scared and took off running, hopped in a car and was gone. I haven't seen him since," he said.

Police said if solicitors cannot provide the proper credentials, then it likely is a scam.

"It's pretty disappointing, this is a very nice neighborhood, not something that we typically think that we would see here," said Weber.

10TV tried to reach out to representatives with the March of Dimes to determine if solicitors with the organization have been canvasing the neighborhood.

Police encourage residents to report suspicious activity right away and only donate to a reputable organization.

©2014 by 10TV.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

©Copyright 2014, WBNS-TV, Inc. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please      read our Privacy Policy, About Our Ads and Terms of Service. It is the policy of The Dispatch Broadcast      Group to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified individuals without regard to      their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, martial status, disability, military status,      citizenship or any other legally-protected status in accordance with applicable local, state and federal law.
