
Elizabeth Conklin was struck by a car driven by 30-year-old Jill Hansen, a wannabe professional surfer who also has a clothing line. Conklin claims that Hansen wanted to steal her car and that the incident was not sparked due to road rage.

Jill  Hansen was being held on $1 million bail after the attempted to run down a 73-year-old woman, authorities said.

The alleged pro surfer also served as the model for her clothing line.

Hansen has been charged with attempted murder for trying to run down a 73-year-old woman.

A Hawaii septuagenarian run down by a self-titled pro surfer believes she was the victim of a carjacking gone wrong.

Cops first thought that 30-year-old wannabe model Jill Hansen's alleged attack on Elizabeth Conklin, 73, on Wednesday stemmed from an earlier road rage incident.

But Conklin — thrown 20 feet after being mowed down while leaving her vehicle in her Waikiki, Honolulu, apartment complex's garage — thinks Hansen was trying to steal her luxury car.

"I parked in my normal parking place and I got out, and all of a sudden I woke up in an ambulance," Conklin told ABC News .

"She saw my car, it was the car she wanted, she followed me (and) was going to kill me to get the car," she added .

It wasn't immediately clear why Conklin accused the tattooed surfer of trying to boost her car. Police did not release a possible motive for the attack.

Elizabeth Conklin, who was hit by a car driven by Jill Hansen, says that Hansen wanted to steal her car.

The young woman allegedly ran down a 73-year-old woman in a parking garage, but fled when a witness smashed her car’s back window.

Hansen says she is a professional surfer and also has a clothing line.

It caused the driver to flee.

Hansen was tracked down by police in the Manoa area about six hours later, however, and arrested and charged with attempted murder.

She remains in custody on $1 million bail.

The alleged attack came on the same day that Hansen, who reportedly has a slew of speeding and assault charges to her name, posted a snap of a BMW 328 wagon — believed to be the same vehicle as Conklin had — to her Facebook account .

"I am becoming a professional (surfer)! I have worked SOOOO hard to get to today," she wrote .

"I am so grateful for all the support of the surfers and the ASP (Association of Surfing Professionals)," she added .

Hansen was arrested in January after her father, Jacob Hansen, reported she violated the conditions of an order of protection he filed in 2012.

"She blocked traffic on my street and called (the Honolulu Police Department) to report that my wife, my son and I had all been murdered," the father wrote in a police report obtained by Radar.

The father initially filed an order of protection after she allegedly used Facebook to find a hitman to kill him and his family.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
