
Participate in Share Chat.

LONDON (Alliance News) - Global Energy Development PLC said Monday that the rig mobilisation has commenced to the Catalina #1 well in its Bolivar Association Contract in the Magdalena Valley in Colombia.

The Latin America-focused petroleum exploration, development and production company said the workover rig is being transferred from the central Magdalena Valley area and the rigging up of all existing equipment is expected to be completed over a seven day period.

Key new equipment is expected to be ready for shipment to Colombia from Houston, USA shortly, said the firm.

The transferral process involves the removal of existing production equipment from the wellbore and the installation of surface pressure control equipment and production tubing suitable for use in high pressure operating conditions, after which the workover rig will then be demobilised and removed from the location.

Once the surface equipment is installed and pressure tested, Global Energy said it will proceed with stimulation test of the Simiti, with initial testing results expected in July.

"The Simiti test is focused on conventional sandstone sections that are known to be productive producers to the south of our Bolivar Block acreage. The Company is hopeful that with modern stimulation techniques, the flow rates achieved nearby in the same formation can be enhanced in our Catalina 1 well-Simiti Test," said the firm's Managing Director, Stephen Voss.

Shares in Global Energy Development were trading 1.52% higher at 73.60 pence per share Monday afternoon.

Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
