
On May 16 the National Assembly continued the work of the extraordinary sitting.

The deputies by voting passed the bills and legislative packages debated on the previous day.

After ending the voting the parliament in the second reading debated the bills “On Amending the RA Civil Code” and “On Amending the RA Law on the RA Administrative-Territorial Divisions” for completely passing them in the second reading. Felix Bashoyan, the key speaker, the Deputy Chairman of the State Cadastre Committee adjunct to the RA Government, presented the proposing amendments to the bill.

The Deputy Chairman of the NA Standing Committee on Territorial Management and Local Self-Government Araik Hovhannisyan presented the endorsement of the Committee.

Armen Ashotyan answered to the deputies’ questions. The NA deputies Ruzanna Muradyan, Heghine Bisharyan, Vahe Hovhannisyan and Aram Manukyan delivered speeches on the item under debate.

In the opinion of the RA Minister of Education and Science, the bill should be passed in the first reading, and if there are recommendations, the bill will be revised and be submitted in the second reading.

Then the legislative package “On RA Investigative Committee” and envisaging amendments to a number of laws stemming from it, the legislative package “On Amending the RA Law on Education” and “On Amending the RA Law on General Education” were debated in the third reading.

The bills “On Amending the RA Law on Education,” “On Amending the RA Law on Preliminary Professional and Secondary Professional Education,” “On Amending the RA Law on Higher and Post Graduate Professional Education,” “On Amending the RA Law on Trade and Services,” and “On Amending the RA Law on Accounting” were debated in the second reading.

According to the NA Vice President Eduard Sharmazanov noted that the items, which were not debated during May 12 - May 16 (18:00) by the recommendation of the Prime Minister Hovik Abrahamyan, will be withdrawn.

The NA extraordinary sitting ended the work.
