
The letter that faith leaders sent to Premier Christy Clark, an active Anglican,  encourages her to "consider the moral implications of promoting export of a fuel that is contributing to horrific air pollution in China and rising CO2 emissions worldwide."

A coalition of diverse religious leaders – mostly Protestants and Catholics, but also Jews and Sikhs — have sent a letter to Premier Christy Clark asking her to stop the export of U.S. coal from B.C. ports.

Vancouver — Fifty-one BC faith leaders have sent an open letter to BC Premier Christy Clark calling on her to reconsider approval of US thermal coal exports via Texada Island and to work to phase out all US coal exports from BC.

The letter is signed by clergy and faith-leaders from Sikh, Jewish, Unitarian, Quaker, Roman Catholic, Anglican, United Church of Canada, Presbyterian, and Evangelical Lutheran communities, including ones on the Sunshine Coast, Texada Island, Delta, New Westminster and Surrey.

The letter states that the signatories cannot stand idly by in the face of local actions that will contribute to climate destabilization, and urges the Premier to reconsider the Texada permit in order to send a powerful message on BC’s commitment to climate action.

“In May of 2012 Premier Clark stated that responsibility for climate change does not stop at BC’s borders.  She also claimed that BC LNG exports would be good for the world and good for the climate because they would allow other countries to wean themselves off of dirty sources of energy like thermal coal,” said Rosemary Cornell, a member of the Sustainability Circle at Canadian Memorial United Church and letter organizer.

In 2012 Premier Clark stated that responsibility for climate change does not stop at BC’s borders. So a coalition of religious leaders is asking why she now supports exporting more U.S. “dirty” coal.

Recently, the province quietly approved coal export expansion on Texada Island to allow the trans-shipment of coal from Fraser Surrey Docks if the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority approves that company’s proposal to export 4 to 8 million tonnes of US thermal coal each year.

If this proposal goes ahead, the volume of coal shipped through the Texada Island terminal will increase 10 to 20 times over current levels.  Local residents have pointed out that current coal exports from Texada are already resulting in arsenic-laden coal contamination on nearby beaches.

The Honorable Mary Polak, Minister of the Environment,

Premier and Honorable Ministers,

We write as leaders of Christian, Jewish, Unitarian, Quaker, and Sikh traditions in British Columbia. We are concerned about the moral and environmental issues regarding the proposal to build a new coal transfer facility at Fraser Surrey Docks (FSD) that would expedite the shipment of up to 8 million tons of U.S. thermal coal through Surrey, the Fraser River, and Salish Sea to Texada Island. We are asking you to reconsider the recently approved permit for the augmentation of the Texada Island port facility that would enable the increased coal export, and to phase out all U.S. thermal coal exports from BC ports.

The end use of this coal is for electric power generation, primarily in China. The practice of burning coal is the source of most of the horrific air pollution problems in that country. Contributing to the increase in coal-related disability among the Chinese weighs heavily on our conscience. Coal is also the fossil fuel most directly linked to the rising CO2 emissions in China of the last 20 years.

Our province has shown strong leadership in the past on commitments to reduce GHG emissions and our municipalities have robust plans to reduce carbon output. The traffic in coal is not compatible with those plans.

In our weekly sermons we encourage our congregations to adopt a sustainable lifestyle. Many of them are walking the talk, reducing their carbon footprint in their daily choices of what they buy and how they travel. Now our congregations are asking us to act as emissaries of their message to you, to embrace a shift in the way to do business. Therefore we will not stand idly by when we see local actions that will contribute to climate destabilization. We state emphatically that making money at the expense of the health and prosperity of the planet is wrong.

Our traditions teach us that human and non-human life is sacred and inter-connected. Our compassion compels us to act to prevent the suffering of human and non-human life on this miraculous planet. Although the amount of coal proposed for traffic through the FSD is a small fraction of the global coal use, this is the coal that you, the representatives of the BC electorate, can control. Approval of these permits means that you are complicit with a continued dependence on a dangerous fuel that is a relic of a time that is no more. Denying the permits would send a powerful message that BC is committed to being part of the solution to the climate crisis.

We ask you to consider both current and future generations of life on this planet as you make these decisions.

Sincerely,

Vancouver School of Theology eco-theologian Sallie McFague advises Dalai Lama at his home in Dharamsala, India.
