
As many as 32 people, most believed to be children, were killed and others injured in northern Colombia on Sunday (May 18) when fire broke out on a bus taking them to a church event, local media reported.

Local media showed the charred, smoking frame of the burned bus, and police removing white body bags containing the children's remains.

The mayor of the town of Fundacion, Luz Stella Duran, said 40 to 50 children had been travelling on the bus accompanied only by the driver. Around 10 children were receiving medical attention, she said.

Local authorities are investigating the fire's cause, and say the bus had a capacity of only 38 passengers.

During his closing campaign event Sunday (May 18), President Juan Manuel Santos expressed his grief over the bus fire.

"There was a bus accident in the Magdalena department, in Fundacion, a bus that was filled with parishioners of the Pentecostal Church. The bus caught on fire, and so far, police have informed that 20 people have died (now 32 people), many of them children. I would like for you all to join me for a minute of silence for them in a show of our solidarity that we have with these types of unfortunate events," he said.

Witness Jose Angel Fuentes described the scene as "hell" to local media.

"There was a young man who was rescuing several girls. A girl reached her arms out to him, but the blaze that was coming out of the bus didn't allow the man to remove the girl, and he had to back up. And there were some boys who were hitting the windows, hitting with their heads, and everyone running to the back. It was tremendous, it was huge. It was practically hell that we experienced here," Fuentes said.

This is the deadliest bus accident Colombia has seen since 2004, when a Bogota school bus was smashed by a construction machine, killing 21 children.

CRIENGLISH.com claims the copyright of all material and information produced        originally by our staff.

CRIENGLISH.com holds neither liability nor responsibility for materials        attributed to any other source. Such information is provided as reportage        and dissemination of information but does not necessarily reflect the opinion        of or endorsement by CRI.
