
People say the Police shouldn’t have tasers because the shock from a taser can kill someone with a bad heart.  I say, if you have a bad heart, and you’re resisting the Police, and they whip out a taser, if you don’t give up that’s your problem.

No, theft does not justify the use of lethal force.

Cowboy cops need to learn how to de-escalate.  It’s a job, not a video game.

this could so be store 52.  smack dab in the hood.  bunch of ghetto thugs, hood rats, white trash and minorities.  then the woman in the animal print.  she would be from “the village” (the section of damn yankees that the northern winters scared down the arkansas) (that also think they are so smart and above the rest of us).

@ RANDY, but if you are caught running and refuse to obey who is to blame?  If a police officer yells stop, you should stop.  If a police officer yells stop or I’ll taser you and you have a bad heart you should stop.  In this case the alleged thief did not follow orders and paid the consequences.

The old saying was don’t do the crime if you can’t do the time.

What if you haven’t done anything wrong, and can’t “get on the ground”?  I couldn’t even get to my knees without help.

They Tase the crap out of people in Iowa.  Lawsuits pending.

Hey Fader, Id like to know what part of Iowa you’er from.  I live in the corridor and I rarely hear about someone getting wrongfully tased.

Tasering a suspect with a ‘bad’ heart does NOT cause them to have a heart attack – it’s an urban myth.  In the Use of Force Continuum Tasers are considered Less Than Lethal devices.  There are NO documented cases of a person dying solely from the use of a Taser,  The few that have died were also using drugs and alcohol and would have died from the combo anyway.

Hey A-  Don’t you read any news?  The mentally ill woman who was cuffed, surrounded by police, and Tased several times to try to make her change her clothes?  It was awful, and I hope they can some justice for her.  They lied and lied some more about what happened and tried to hide reports but it’s all coming out now.  Her father took her meds to the jail but they wouldn’t give them to her, or call her doctor.

There have been others.  I know the newspaper here is crappy but read it anyhow.

I live in the middle.

Jesus Hartwell White. I’m from Arkansas, but my family is from Texas. Luckily I moved to Minnesota. Jesus, it doesn’t smell like chicken shit, and the people here don’t look all weird and inbred. I hate Arkansas, and whoever here lives there and knows that it sucks and you’re cool, just move to a liberal city. More to do ou there.

You are wrong as it gets and I was just a witness in a trial because I watched a cop taze someone and he dropped dead.  No drugs, no alcohol…irregular heart rhythm.  He had a “Bad” heart.

He’s dead and his widow has 15 million dollars to prove you wrong.

People of Walmart is a humor blog that depicts the many customers of Walmart stores across the United States and Canada. Through funny photos and videos, Please of Walmart is an entertainment blog in the Three Ring Blogs network that features over 30 of the funniest humor blogs on the internet. Walmart is the largest retail store in the United States and has millions of people visit stores each day wearing anything but proper attire.
