
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- Louisville Metro Police say they've arrested two people after they found prescription drugs inside a third-floor room of an abandoned Bardstown Road hotel.

According to an arrest report, the incident took place on Sunday, just before 3 p.m.

Police say they were initially called to the Thorntons on Bardstown Road, near Goldsmith Lane, after someone there reported that there was a man, who was possibly drunk, harassing customers at the store. The caller told police that they were familiar with the man and that it was an ongoing problem at the store.

Police say they found a man matching that description -- 20-year-old Shanon Mattingly -- on the sidewalk in front of Thorntons. According to the arrest report, he was nearly struck by a vehicle while crossing traffic on Bardstown Road.

Police say that when they approached Mattingly, he was "fidgety and uncooperative," and that there was a small bag of marijuana sticking out of his pocket. When officers saw this, Mattingly allegedly pulled away from them and ran away, crossing northbound lanes of Bardstown Road and weaving in between vehicles.

A short time later, officers tracked Mattingly to an abandoned hotel next to the Popeye's Chicken and Biscuits near Bardstown Road and Goldsmith Lane. That hotel is secured by a chain link fence, according to the arrest report.

While police were checking rooms on the third floor of the hotel, they noticed that the door to Room 322 was closed and locked. Police opened the door -- and inside, they found Mattingly and another suspect, 30-year-old Teresa Tipton.

But that's not all they found, according to arrest reports. Police say they found a metal pipe that looked as though it had been used to smoke crack cocaine, prescription pill bottles with someone else's name on it, and marijuana in a garbage can.

Both Mattingly and Tipton were arrested.

While in custody, Mattingly allegedly complained that he was about to pass out. When an officer briefly let him outside the police vehicle to get some air and determine whether EMS was required, he allegedly pulled away and tried to run from the officer, but the officer was able to wrestle him back into custody.

Mattingly was arrested and charged with -- among other things -- fleeing and evading police, criminal mischief, assault, criminal trespassing, possession of marijuana, burglary, possession of controlled substances and possession of drug paraphernalia.

Tipton was arrested and charged with burglary, possession of marijuana, possession of a controlled substance and possession of drug paraphernalia.

Copyright 2014 by WDRB News. All rights reserved.
