
A Crockett Police officer arrested a 34-year-old woman on Friday after she allegedly try to obtain a prescription for two medications in her friend's name using a blank prescription note she stole from her doctor's office.

Ashunta Trimille Woodson, of Crockett, is still being held in the Houston County Jail on a felony charge of fraudulent possession of a controlled substance or prescription. No information was available on her bail amount.

According to the arrest affidavit, a Crockett Police officer was dispatched to the Davy Crockett Drug pharmacy located at 107 South 4th Street at approximately 10:03 a.m. in reference to a woman who was later identified as Woodson presenting a false prescription note for Alpraxolam and Norco for a patient named Walter Denman.

When the Crockett Police officer arrived on the scene, one of the pharmacists told him that she immediately realized that the prescription note wasn't valid. She told the CPD officer that she had been contacted by Brookshire Brothers Pharmacy to be on the lookout for Woodson attempting to pass fake prescription notes, the affidavit stated.

The officer asked Woodson to wait outside with another police officer, and he went to talk to a man at the store's front counter that he knew as Walter Denman. When the CPD officer asked Denman if he was waiting on any prescriptions to be filled, Denman said no and added that he doesn't take any medications.

Denman told the officer that Woodson had picked him up near the intersection of West Austin and 4th streets and told him that she needed his information to fill in a prescription. According to the affidavit, Denman was told if Woodson could use his information, she would buy him some beer.

The Crockett Police officer went outside to talk to Woodson and asked if she knew why the CPD officers had made contact with her at the pharmacy. Woodson allegedly admitted to taking a blank prescription note from her doctor's office.

According to the affidavit, Woodson also told the officer that she wrote all the prescription information on the note and that she had forged her doctor's name on the bottom.

The CP officer then contacted Woodson's doctor, who said that he had prescribed the medication to her the day before to be filled at Brookshire Brothers. The doctor also said that he didn't have a patient by the name of Walter Denman.

Copyright 2014 KTRE . All rights reserved.

Diboll ISD students got to celebrate their first day back to school with a party. Everyone in the community was invited to attend the districts' first back-to-school bash.

One former Nacogdoches educator just can't get away from a school filled with personal memories.G.W.. Neal celebrated another “first day of school” even though he didn't plan it that way.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTRE. All Rights Reserved.
