
UPDATE: An Oahu grand jury has indicted Jill Anjuli Hansen on a charge of second-degree attempted murder. As she left the courthouse Tuesday, Hansen said she's innocent and believes she was framed. She told reporters, “I just wanted to surf the world tour of surfing.” Victim Elizabeth Conklin told reporters she believes Hansen had been trying to steal her BMW.

A 73-year-old Hawaii woman was seriously injured after being struck by a hit-and-run driver in the garage of her own apartment building.

Police say the incident was brought on by road rage, and charged Jill Anjuli Hansen , 30, with second-degree attempted murder, KHON reports.

Hansen allegedly followed Elizabeth Conklin to her Honolulu condo where she hit her with her car and subsequently fled the scene, according to Hawaii News Now.

Witnesses at the scene told police that after hitting Conklin the first time, Hansen reversed her vehicle in order to hit Conklin again. Chris Khory, a maintenance worker at the condo, then used a crowbar to smash the back window of Hansen’s car, causing Hansen to flee the scene on foot.

Hansen, who says she is a professional surfer and model on her Facebook page, has a slew of traffic infractions and prior moving violations, as well as a restraining order against her and a pending third-degree assault case. In addition, court records show she was ordered to have a mental health evaluation in connection with a separate case.

Her driving behavior had become the focus of a local neighborhood watch group whose members claim more than half a dozen people were threatened by her driving.

Hansen, who gave a TEDx talk in 2010 in Fullerton, California, entitled “Open Mind, Open Heart,” has numerous profanity-laced posts on her Facebook page about her “haters.” A May 14 post, which was written just hours after the alleged hit and run, was upbeat about her prospects as a professional surfer.

Hansen's bail was set at $1 million .

Conklin’s husband said his wife is recovering well.

Powell is accused of running naked around a Florida apartment complex in February, 2012. A police report on Powell's arrest notes that, ""Statements from the defendant were not possible as he would only state he loved cocaine and needed more cocaine."

Koenig was accused in February, 2013 of throwing hammers at Texas construction workers and then baracading himself inside his residence when police arrived to question him, according to the Houston Chronicle.

Hoover was arrested for disorderly conduct in South Carolina on November, 16, 2012. But, more importantly, he's "down to boink."

Payne is accused of being so drunk that a police officer had to hold his head up for his mugshot after he was arrested in October, 2012 by Humble, Tex. cops.

Officers in Port Orange, Fla., say Terry Smith allegedly tried to rob a taxi and, in the process, left his wallet in the cab.

After crashing his Mustang into an Indianapolis home, William Kise's first question to the victims was reportedly, "You want some pizza?"

Michael Don Mitchell, 38, is accused of stealing $87 in cash and change from a home in Lakeport, Tex., as well as a can of Chef Boyardee ravioli. Investigators identified him by the spaghetti sauce around his lips and mouth.

Police in Syracuse, N.Y., say Arthur Brundage robbed a bank and then came back to claim he was shortchanged on the loot.

Police in Aurora, Ill., say they discovered Daniel Selmon was growing marijuana when they spotted a large bonfire he allegedly lit to keep the plants warm.

Raymond Garcia, 45, was arrested after cops saw him fighting a street sign.

Phillip Beach is accused of trying to steal a boat by jumping in the water and pulling it as he swam. He was arrested for felony theft.

John Caruso is accused of squirting dish soap in his girlfriend's mouth in an attempt to stop her from cursing.

Sheriff's deputies responding to a burglary call say they found Cristian Villarreal-Castillo, a 20-year-old man, asleep on the kitchen floor of a home in Oregon.

Chad William Forber, 41, has been charged with possession of methamphetamine, resisting or obstructing a peace officer and possession of drug paraphernalia, stemming from an incident where he was found naked in public covered in nothing but Crisco.

Johnny Broestler, 46, is accused of smearing dirty underwear on another man's face after an argument about rent.

Joyce Coffey was arrested four times in 26 hours for blasting the AC/DC song "Highway to Hell" and other loud music from her home and for throwing a frying pan.

LaKeisha Nicole Brown, 24, of Longview, Tex., is accused of running an SUV over five people playing dominoes in a car port.

James David Gray was charged with his fifth DUI when police in Ocala, Fla., pulled him over for driving drunk on a lawnmower.

Terry Davis is accused of stealing a textbook called "Resolving Ethical Issues" from the University of Louisville's Health Sciences Center and then later trying to resell the book to a rival book store.

April Hill, 22, of Greenville, Indiana, was arrested on preliminary charges of operating a vehicle while intoxicated with a blood-alcohol content of 0.15 or higher and a felony count of disturbing a train bed.

Patriotically-adorned Butkiewicz, 31, was arrested in the wee hours of the morning after Independence Day for allegedly dealing drugs at Miami's posh Fontainebleau Hotel.

Rhonda Washington, 33, of Bryan, Tex., is accused of stabbing her husband because she didn't like his Facebook update. She maintains that she stabbed him with keys because she was mad he was doing PCP in the house.

Lindsay Medd Stevens was arrested by police in Knoxville, Tenn., for indecent exposure after his neighbor saw him cutting a tree down -- while completely in the buff. Knox County sheriff's deputy Scott Ritch told WATE-TV that he saw Stevens standing completely nude in his yard cutting a tree, only to run inside his house when he saw the officer.

Jason Dornhoff was arrested after he wrote a bomb threat on the back of a job application, police said. Cops searched his truck, but found no explosives.

Germot was accused of threatening his neighbor by saying, "When I get done taking a s--t, I'm gonna kick your f---ing a--!"

Ilyass Nabih and Thony Sengsoulya, both of Nashua, New Hampshire, were arrested on drug charges in June 2012 after authorities spotted them allegedly trying to shoot up heroin while parked outside the Lawrence Police Station in Massachusetts.

Mishkov is accused of masturbating in front of a jail employee on his way to court to face a previous flashing charge.

In June, 2012, Smith was accused of driving under the influence and of spitting blood on law enforcement officers in Volusia County, Fla.

Raymond Carl Knudson pleaded guilty June 25 to sticking up a Bank of America branch in April, a crime he confessed within minutes of committing.

Kola J. McGrath was arrested for sneaking into her boyfriend's apartment complex by hiding in a small pink suitcase in Portland, Ore. The police searched the apartment of Curtis T. Lowe after being informed that a man had kidnapped a woman, put her in a suitcase, and taken her into the building. They found McGrath hiding in a closet.

Houaka Yang, 20, of Wisconsin, accidentally videotaped his confession and identified himself on tape with a camcorder he stole. Once the video camera was recovered, the victim uploaded Yang's clip to YouTube.

Luerissie Ashley Ross -- who is also a stripper called Pocahontas -- was arrested in February after she allegedly lured a man to his death and shot another in two robberies in Houston. Read more.

Clyde Hobbs was arrested in May, 2012 for allegedly calling 911 at least 17 times -- to talk dirty to operators. He'd been arrested several times in the past for the same crime. When cops arrived to collar him, Hobbs asked, "Are you here to arrest me again?" Read more.

Patricia Krentcil was charged with child endangerment for allegedly allowing her 5-year-old to use a tanning booth, but the New Jersey mom says the child got a sunburn from playing outside.   Read more.

Largo (Fla.) Police pulled over Kotelman allegedly for speeding and driving drunk on May 3. Cops checked the trunk and say they found a small monkey tucked inside.   Read more.

Latham, 22, allegedly got naked, stole a man's truck and then ran it into the front of a home at 50 mph.   Read more.

Sheriff's deputies in Albuquerque, N.M. arrested Joseph Hannah for allegedly posing as a police officer. He's accused of pointing a gun at a group of teenage boys and allegedly urinating on a hat belonging to one of them. Two women told police that he pulled them over and flirted with them in separate incidents.   Read more.

Michael Baker was arrested after posting a Facebook photo of himself stealing gas from a police car in Jenkins, Ky.  Read more.

Ronaldo Silva allegedly broke out of a Brazilian prison by dressing in drag in April, 2012. He was caught less than an hour by a cop who noticed that he walked funny in heels.  Read more.

Ray Woods allegedly tied 89 bags of heroin and cocaine to his penis. When cops found him out, he reportedly urinated all over himself.   Read more.

Keith Fehr is accused of wearing a black dress and exposed himself to children at a park in Illinois.  Read more.

Raymond Foley, an IT guy at an insurance company in West Des Moines, allegedly peed on four female co-workers' chairs over the course of five months. The company installed surveillance cameras in April, 2012 when the women complained, and reportedly caught Foley yellow handed.  Read more.

Jesse James Thomas, arrested March 28 for public drunkenness, Thomas was wearing a sombrero when he jumped on an officer's parked patrol car screaming his name, according to an account in the Sacramento Bee.  Read more.

William Bliss was arrested in March, 2012 after claiming four men made him carry a nuclear bomb -- while he was naked and drunk in the middle of an Iowa City street.  Read more.

Salem police say surveillance video shows Christina Lopez watched her 17-year-old daughter dance at Presley's Playhouse Cabaret, a strip club in Oregon.   Read more.

Accused teenage Bookie Briana Rios of Florida is accused of taking bets on NBA and NFL games.   Read more.

Matthew Ibarria, a fugitive from Florida wanted for allegedly attacking a relative, was arrested after jumping naked from a car in Georgia. This dashboard video from a Kingsland Police Department vehicle allegedly shows him running away.   Read more.

Jacob Lee Bovia is facing real indecent exposure charges for exposing his fake genitalia to a group of women on Maryland's Anne Arundel Community College campus.  Read more.

John Jardini, 26, of Pittsburgh allegedly robbed a woman for $60 -- and then asked her out on a date by cell phone. The "love" story gets worse. Read more here.

Jason Engel, 21, of Pittsburgh, was arrested after he skipped a court hearing on charges that he stole $400 from a 2-year-old's piggy bank. Read more here.

Former Elvis impersonator Michael Conley blamed his diabetes for starting a standoff with Florida police, in which he threatened to use a weapon of mass destruction against them. He allegedly held up a vial of what he called Ricin -- a highly potent toxin -- as he barricaded himself in a motel in February, 2012. He was arrested about four hours later. Read more here.

Barker called 911 repeatedly in Hudson, Fla. asking them to fetch him a taxi and saying that he lost his football. Cops arrested him for allegedly misusing the emergency system on Feb. 20, 2012. Read more here.

Those who attempt to arrest Mark Loescher have their work cut out for them. When he was arrested for assault, he not only told officers that he was Elvis Presley's brother, a friend of President Bush, and director of the CIA, but he was also half-orangutan. Read more here.

A Martin County sheriff's deputy in Florida arrested Ramon Blair, 28, based on tips from informants that Blair would have hundreds of dollars of crack cocaine "on his person." An initial search turned no results, but a more thorough search while in custody revealed that Blair had hidden the crack in, well, his crack. Blair was told to undress, squat, and cough -- and police found what appeared to be a white piece of paper in his buttocks, which contained crack cocaine. Read more here.

Clothes be darned: Verdon Taylor was arrested in February, 2012 for allegedly stripping naked in the parking lot of a Walmart, walking inside and putting on socks, then shopping. Almost needless to say, he was eventually Tased. Read more here.

Portland, Ore. couple Nikolas Harbar and Stephanie Pelzner were arrested on Valentine's Day, 2012 after Harbar allegedly bound his naked girlfriend and threw her in the back of a car -- in the pursuit of a sexy role-play romp. Cops, after a long search, found that Pelzner wasn't a kidnapping victim, but that both were disorderly conduct suspects. Read more here.

Misty Lawson, 30, a self-described "professional baby maker" on her Facebook page, allegedly punched her son in the face and body several times during an in-home, state-mandated anger management course. Read more here.

Harold Wayne Hadley, Jr. was arrested in February 2012 for allegedly threatening to blow up his Mississippi school -- but he maintains it was a fart joke. He allegedly wrote, on a piece of toilet paper, that he "passed a bomb in the library." He was held on $20,000 bail. Read more here.

He had a real sweet tooth. Cops say they found 22-year-old Andrew Toothman lying down inside Kentucky Food World IGA market on Feb. 2, completely covered in chocolate and peanut butter. He'd also allegedly written "Sorry" in NyQuil on the floor. Read more here.

Rogue cuddler Agustin Sanchez allegedly snuck into his ex-girlfriend's home and crawled into bed with her for a snuggle. The spooning attempt was thwarted, however, when the woman notified police. Read more here.

Timothy Clark probably didn't think his plan through when he allegedly shoplifted from a Wal-Mart at the same time that police were holding their "Shop With A Cop" charity event.  Read more.

Oneal Morris is accused of posing as a doctor and filling a women's buttocks with cement, mineral oil and flat-tire sealant.   The woman wanted to work at a nightclub and searched for someone who could perform plastic surgery at a cheap price to give her a curvier body.   Police say Oneal was was born a man but identifies as a woman.   Read more.

Police in Illinois say that Olivia Ornelas blamed her DUI and crashed vehicle on her boyfriend's failure to take her, as he promised, to the new "Twilight" movie. Read more.

Authorities in Georgia found Ranaldo Jack stuck in a woman's chimney. He was charged in connection with an attempted burglary.  Read more.

Marsia Emanuel allegedly flagged a school bus in Winter Haven, Fla., boarded and beat the bus driver in front of her daughter, a student riding it already. Cops found Emanuel later at home where she dropped her underpants in front of them, they said. It's unclear what was her motive.   Read more.

Investigators in California are trying to track down a man who robbed a bank armed with pesticide. The suspect appeared to be carrying a black semi-automatic handgun and a plastic container of pesticide when he held up the Pacific Western Bank in Rancho Santa Fe on Nov. 4, 2011.  Read more.

Police in Florida arrested Karen Henry, 45, after she allegedly threatened her 80-year-old father with a knife for not sharing his potato salad.  Read more.

This camouflage might work well in nature, but it really stands out in the police station. Oregon investigators believe Gregory Liascos, 36, was wearing this "ghillie" camouflage when he attempted to break into the Rice Northwest Museum of Rocks and Minerals last week. After setting off alarms, the suspect allegedly fled into a wooded area nearby. Officers only found Liascos when a police dog bit what appeared to be a patch of grass -- which yelped in pain. On Oct. 12, 2011, authorities said Liascos failed to show up for his trial. A warrant has been issued for his arrest.

Sheriff's deputies in Pinal County, Ariz., say Albert Tejeda's unique tattoos -- and his lengthy rap sheet -- leave him with a face they'll never forget. After Tejeda allegedly fled during a traffic stop, deputies claim they knew exactly who they were looking for and later found the 31-year-old walking around Casa Grande with a samurai sword.

Even if Juan Aguirre got away, he would have ended up empty handed. Police said the 21-year-old Kansan stole six empty DVD boxes from a local adult entertainment shop.

Josephine Smith is seen in this booking photo from the Pinellas County Jail. Smith was arrested after allegedly attacking and biting a piece of skin off a homeless man in St. Petersburg after proclaiming "I am a vampire, I am going to eat you".

Edwin Tobergta, 32, is seen in this booking photo from the Butler County Sheriff's Office. Tobergta was arrested after allegedly having sex with an inflatable pool raft.

It's not easy to be the most most memorable visitor when thousands of NASCAR fans come to town, but West Virginia's Joshua Greene made a pretty good run for that honor when police caught the streaking 27-year-old with a raccoon in his car.

We're not saying there's guilt written all over his face, but Ismael Ambrosio is seen in this Aug. 9 booking photo from the Pinellas County (Fla.) Jail with a facial tattoo that could not have pleased police officers.

The hand of justice makes an appearance in this mug shot. Nichlous Peternik -- and the arm of a law enforcement official in Redding, Calif. -- are featured prominently in this memorable booking photo taken after Peternik was arrested on suspicion of burglary. Officials say they were forced to reach into the frame when Peternik refused to pull his hair back from over his face.

An Australian man caught driving a motorized cooler box through a beachside resort town appeared in court charged with drunk driving, The Courier Mail reported Monday. Christopher Ian Petrie, 23, faces charges of driving under the influence and driving without a license after police caught him on the makeshift vehicle, which was powered by a 50cc engine.

Former Miss El Paso USA Lorena Tavera was arrested for allegedly shoplifting a $69 shirt in El Paso.

Cory Smits, 29, is seen in this booking photo from the Manitowoc County Sheriff's Department. Smits was found guilty July 7 on his fifth offense of operating a vehicle while intoxicated.

This booking photo from the Shasta County Sheriff's Office in California shows Patrick Francis Brooks and his obscene tattoo after his July 11 arrest on charges of burglary, receiving stolen property, forgery and violating the terms of his parole for a previous conviction.

Mark Anthony Richardson Jr. wore diapers and faked being autistic to get women to babysit him. He was sentenced to three years in prison in July 2011 for groping an 18-year-old daughter of one of the conned nannies.

Levon T. Sarkisyan, allegedly broke into a Connecticut home and smashed statues and furniture, because he claimed God told him to do it, according to police.

Police in Phoenix, Ariz., have accused Randon Reid of the crime of flight -- and a crime against flight. Investigators say the 26-year-old suspect opened fire on an airplane parked at Deer Valley Airport, then fled from authorities who tried to pull him over. He has reportedly been charged with felony flight and driving under the influence.

Holy handcuffs! Police in a smog-clotted town in northwest Michigan are touting the arrest of Batman. The legendary caped crusader was reportedly nabbed while dangling from a 30-foot-high building. The unmasked superhero wannabe is actually a local resident named Mark Wayne Williams.

A South Carolina man who twice pleaded guilty to having sex with a horse has been released from prison and put on probation, under the condition that he keep his distance from the horse. Rodell Vereen, pictured in this file photo, was released from prison after serving 16 months.

It was almost a kiss of death. Deputies in Florida say 92-year-old Helen Staudinger opened fire on her neighbor's house after the much younger resident refused to give her a kiss. Investigators at the Marion County Sheriff's Office claim Staudinger refused to leave 53-year-old Dwight Bettner unless her neighbor gave her a kiss. She allegedly returned with a gun.

It's always best to practice what you preach. Police in Florida say they arrested the former president of a local chapter of Mother's Against Drunk Driving for driving under the influence. Debra Oberlin has been charged with drunk driving for the Feb. 18 incident.

Police in Michigan say a man claimed he was royalty before trying to steal a pack of Marlboros from a 7-Eleven. Joseph Lawrence Borowiak is charged with strong-arm robbery and resisting arrest after allegedly wrestling a store clerk over a pack of cigarettes. Borowiak reportedly stated, "The king doesn't pay for cigarettes."

Jerome Smith's forehead says he's a "Genius," but police say he wasn't being smart when he allegedly struck a pregnant woman with a handgun. The Cincinnati, Ohio, resident is accused of repeatedly pistol-whipping a woman who was eight months pregnant in late January.

When police caught 87-year-old Leo Earl Sharp allegedly transporting 228 pounds of cocaine, the suspect told them that he was forced "at gunpoint" to transport the drugs.

Andrei Bibbs, 54, of the 3000 block of Coopers Grove Court, was arrested Jan. 7 Illinois State Police and charged with driving while under the influence of alcohol. He was clearly shocked by the change.

Belton lost his wig, sunglasses and $115,000 worth of casino chips when security wrestled him to the floor during a botched weekend heist, according to authorities.

Tiffany Pocock, 27, of Bellevue, Ohio, spat blood on the cops who were arresting her in late May 2012. After being detained for driving a vehicle while impaired, Pocock also began banging her head repeatedly against the door of the police vehicle, sustaining personal injuries that resulted in her hospitalization.   Read more.

Dylan DiFalco told a Sheriff's deputy he had to urinate and, when the cop told him he'd have to wait, he peed in the cop car, according to an arrest report. "I told you I had to go you stupid cop," Difalco said, according to the report.

Hodges, 20, of Florida, allegedly fled to a nudist colony and threatened residents there after committing an armed robbery at a nearby Lowe's. The fully-clothed Hodges was reported to have been easily identified by his pursuers in the naked environment.

Shelby, 53, was arrested in South Florida on June 1, 2012 for driving without a license -- immediately after leaving a courthouse after he appeared for the same offense.

Okrzesik is accused of helping to kill 19-year-old Juliana Mensch in March. She allegedly sent incriminating text messages and conducted fishy Google searches implicating herself in the crime.

Karoly is accused of choking her boyfriend because he refused to marry her so she could get a new Visa.

Pope was arrested for DUI. He allegedly told police that he was a "covert agent" and that he had drank 100 beers.

Mabb is accused of exposing herself at an intersection in Pompano Beach, Fla. She allegedly told police she didn't "give a f--k" about her actions, according to a police report.

Lages was arrested when he allegedly called 911 after he was not allowed to bring his kitten inside a strip club.

Seehaus allegedly told police that he robbed a 7-Eleven in Palm Bay, Fla. after his fiance refused to have sex with him.

Slaughter is accused of admitting to child molestation and bestiality during a job interview with the US Border Patrol.

Paez is accused of urinating on a woman's leg after she rejected his advances.

Dajaun Porter is accused of breaking into the homes of male victims and giving them oral sex as they slept.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
