
May 19, 2014 — State, national and international media frequently feature the University of Wyoming and members of its community in stories. Here is a summary of some of the recent articles where UW is making the news.

In a front-page story, The Laramie Boomerang detailed UW’s plan to become a Tier 1 program for the College of Engineering and Applied Science.

National Geographic is among publications noting that UW Department of Ecosystem Science and Management Professor Scott Shaw and colleagues have discovered 24 new species of Aleiodes wasps in Ecuador that mummify caterpillars.

UW Assistant Professor of Botany Alex Buerkle is a member of a research team that published new findings about the evolution of stick insects in Science Daily and numerous other science publications.

Tim Considine, director of UW’s Center for Energy economics and Public Policy, wrote in the Orange County Register about the economic benefits of expanding California’s oil and gas production.

Department of Sociology Associate Professor Anna Zajacova’s research on the consequences of early adulthood obesity continues to appear in media outlets, including HCP Live , the health care professionals’ network. The Laramie Boomerang ran a front-page story about the obesity study.

The Associated Press carried UW’s release about David Palmerlee’s selection as president of the UW Board of Trustees.

Several outlets, including the Casper Star-Tribune , reported on UW student Emily Richardson’s research that uses remote sensing to understand how environmental factors affect plant growth. The Casper Star-Tribune also published an article about the costs of maintaining new buildings being built on campus.

The Laramie Boomerang published a UW release noting that Wendy Estes-Zumpf, a zoologist with the Wyoming Natural Diversity Database, is seeking the public’s help in surveying amphibian populations.

UW Economist Anne Alexander was featured in a Sheridan Press story on unemployment statistics.

UW Police Chief Mike Samp was quoted in a Laramie Boomerang article about campus safety. The Boomerang also carried a front-page story about operational costs resulting from campus construction activities.

The Casper Star-Tribune editorial board praised UW and UW-Casper graduates in its weekly “Cheers and Jeers” report.

The Fremont County news website, County 10 , published UW’s release about a planned renovation of Corbett Pool.

The Riverton Ranger carried UW’s release announcing recipients of the Chief Washakie scholarships.

UW fisheries biologist Wayne Hubert, who retired from the Wyoming Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research, was profiled in a front-page Laramie Boomerang story.
