
Thursday 15th May marked Nakba Day, Yawm an-Nakba, "Day of Catastrophe", the onset of the displacement of perhaps 800,000 Palestinians, at the time 67% of the population, followed by the destruction of over five hundred villages (1) since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, under the commitment agreed by the then British Foreign Secretary, Lord Arthur Balfour, in November 1917.

The Foreign Secretary was clearly following in his master's footsteps since last week the Obama regime granted diplomatic foreign mission status to the "Syrian National Coalition" offices in New York and Washington, with a welcome present of a further promised $27 million increase in "non-lethal assistance to rebels fighting to oust President Bashar al-Assad."(3) This brings the total US support for the above crimes to $287 million. Strangely, two days before the London meeting, it was announced that Israel's Justice Minister Tzipi Livni was awarded  "special mission" temporary diplomatic status to visit London, "to protect her against arrest and potential prosecution for alleged breaches of international law, including war crimes" relating to Israel's attack on Gaza in December 2008-January 2009. In December 2009 Livni cancelled a visit to Britain after an arrest warrant was issued by a London Court.

The reason for Livni's visit was shrouded in secrecy. What is known that the evening of the "Friends of Syria" meeting, she was to address a fund- raising dinner for the Jewish National Fund at London's luxury Jumeirah Carlton Tower Hotel ($725 a night current lowest available rate, no wonder funds are needed.) But all those Foreign Office diplomatic sleights of hand to enable something she could have done by video-link? Well, here's a thought. Two days before Ms Livni's arrival in London aided by the Foreign Office's diplomatic goal post displacements, Major General Amos Yadlin, former Deputy Commander of the Israeli Air Force, who headed military intelligence between 2006-2010 said that: " Israel should weigh launching a military strike at Syria if the Assad regime uses chemical weapons against his civilian population ..." Preferable though, mooted the General, would be a NATO led action led by the US, with Turkey the key country, establishing a no fly zone over Syria "at the very minimum."(5) Libya revisited.

There should also be "standoff strikes" by NATO aircraft at strategic government targets. "If Israel discovers that Assad is using chemical weapons against his people in mass attacks, it should intervene militarily", said the representative of a regime who has used chemical weapons - not alone white phosphorous but also depleted uranium, both a chemical and radioactive weapon - against the Palestinians. Ironically, the article is headed: "Israel should punish Assad for killing civilians", an expertise Israel has honed with impunity over sixty six years. Right on cue, on 13th May, in the lead to the London Conference, Human Rights Watch produced a Report of "strong evidence" that Syrian government forces were using chlorine bombs.

The letter was also signed by former UN Assistant Secretary General, Hans von Sponeck, current UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in the Palestinian Territories, Richard Falk and over one hundred scholars  John Kerry was, of course, also in London for the meeting, two days after he and President Obama had met with alleged former brothel owner Ahmed al-Jabra, who heads the "Syrian National Coalition", in Washington. Jabra too had hopped on a 'plane to London to attend the up-market plotting venue.

Perhaps these most serious allegations regarding the man who now has upgraded diplomatic status in the US and UK have passed the State Department and Whitehall by. Whatever, they certainly seem to play fast and loose with awarding diplomatic credentials.

4.

7.
