
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

Police are investigating a robbery where a woman was tied up and an attempted robbery at the same hotel in Southwest Philadelphia.

Police are investigating  two incidents at a Southwest Philadelphia hotel - a robbery where a woman was tied up and an attempted ATM robbery.

The first incident around 4:30 p.m. Sunday at the Extended Stay America hotel on the 9000 block of Tinicum Boulevard.

There were people in the lobby when police say a 22-year-old woman freed herself after being tied up and robbed.

"Young female came around the corner and collapsed. Three of the ladies got her up and got her in the break room and got the room secured to help protect her and that's when the police were called," said James Bailey, hotel guest.

The victim managed to tell police how she was bound and gagged at the hotel near Philadelphia International Airport.

The man stole her phone, laptop and some cash before taking off.  The suspect is described as a black male in his 30s, 6'0" tall, 250 pounds, wearing a black track jacket with black shorts with two yellow stripes on the side.

A short time later, the woman was able to get out of the room.

Bailey, who's staying at the hotel, was taking a smoke break when she collapsed in the lobby.

"As far as I'm concerned, any man that puts his hands on a woman is not a man. He needs to be taken out back and have a severe whooping put on him," he said.

In a bizarre twist, while police were processing that scene, around 9:30 p.m., two men walked through the back of the same hotel and tried to drill their way into an ATM.

They didn't get into the machine and apparently were scared off by a hotel guest.

Investigators say it's possible the men who tried to steal from the ATM didn't know officers were already on the scene since they came through a back door.

"It's a heck of a night and I might have to look for another hotel," said Bailey.

Police say the woman who was tied up and robbed at gunpoint is from out of town and she was not injured.

Investigators are working on surveillance video to get a better description on the men involved in these two separate crimes.
