
Amy Sue Pagnac was last seen at a gas station in Osseo, Minn., on Aug. 5, 1989. Authorities searched her family's home Sunday, but declined to identify any new leads in the case.

Maple Grove Police Amy Pagnac, 13, went missing from  Osseo, Minn., in 1989.

Police in Minnesota are back investigating the home of a family 25 years after their 13-year-old daughter disappeared.

The Maple Grove Police Department responded to the home of the family of Amy Sue Pagnac, who was last seen at a gas station in Osseo, Minn., on Aug. 5, 1989.

Maple Grove Police Captain Keith Terlinden told media at a press conference Sunday afternoon authorities planned to be at the scene for several days. He declined to mention what prompted the police to begin this search 25 years after Amy Sue's disappearance.

Amy Sue’s parents said they were unaware the police had new leads in the case of the missing 13-year-old.

A police officer takes pictures outside the home of Amy Sue Pagnac.

He did note the agency has followed up on every lead they have received on this case.

The girl went missing at the gas station as her father was using a restroom, reports TV station WCCO.

The time is now for people to help bring Amy home.

Amy's mother, Susan Pagnac, told the station she was unaware authorities had a new lead until they showed up at her house with a search warrant.

"Over 20 years now — 25 — trying to get (police to) move and do things," she said. "So, you can't really complain when they do that, even if you're not sure why they're doing what they're doing."

The mother also pleaded once again for anyone with information to speak out.

"Even if they have not come forward or been contacted, they need to do that. The time is now for people to help bring Amy home," Susan said.

No arrests have been announced as the department is working on the investigation with the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
