
MYSORE: The  religious site of Suttur will get a museum mapping the evolution of humans.

The department of heritage, archaeology and museums will develop a museum at the village, which is the site of Shivartrishwara mutt. Museums are also planned to be developed at Kanakagiri in Chamarajnagar and in Dharwad district.

Heritage commissioner C G Betsurmath on Monday said there are plans to develop an international museum near Kanakpura near Bangalore. Speaking after inaugurating international museum day at the department in Dasara Exhibition Grounds, the commissioner said: There is a growing interest to map the human evolution by setting up museums in the state. Many organizations are interested in these projects.

According to him, there are 35,000 museums in 143 nations and the department of archaeology and museums started in 1977 is focusing on preserving the monuments and heritage sites and passing it on to next generations. Taking a closer look at the materials unearthed during excavations both in the state and other parts of India shed light about the history of human evolution and its importance. It is our job to preserve the culture through the materials unearthed and pass them on to next generations, he stated adding that the department is planning to set up a museum at Suttur.

Incidentally, the  Suttur mutt has a mini museum which attracts thousands.

He said some of the artifacts including Veeragallu found during excavation at Sannati and Talkad are preserved at the department. The archeologists have found Veeragallu at historical Hadinaru near Nanjangud and at Begur near Bangalore. These will be transported to the department and displayed, he stated. Betsurmath said the department is moving to take control of the old fort at Madikeri to preserve it as a monument and to use the space to develop a museum. The old fort is now used as the DC Office.

Deputy director of archives Gavisiddaiah deplored lack of interest among the public, mainly youths, in tracking the history. There is so much to research and discover by studying the documents available in the department of archives but there is lack of enthusiasm. The materials related to Mysore maharajas rule, including Hyder Ali and Tippu Sultan, are useful to track the development of the erstwhile Mysore state. But it is not properly studied, he stated adding there are 13,000 documents related to Mysore rulers from Wadiyar dynasty. How  Dasara festival was celebrated, how and why durbar was held during Dasara festival, participation of European guests in durbar and how the rulers treated the guests are revealed by these documents, he stated. There is need to study and educate people about them to preserve and promote our culture, he stated.
