
POMONA>> A resolution will go before the City Council on Monday calling for police to hold off on impounding vehicles of undocumented immigrants if they are stopped for a minor Vehicle Code violation.

Earlier this year, immigrant rights advocates along with Pomona residents asked council members to establish a moratorium on impounding vehicles if  Pomona police stopped drivers and found they are unlicensed because they are living in the country without proper immigration documents.

Such an approach could remain in place until the state Department of Motor Vehicles begins issuing licenses to undocumented immigrants in January, advocates have said.

Advocates have called on local officials in other cities and state officials in Sacramento to do the same.

Councilwoman Cristina Carrizosa said the proposal has evolved and rather than a moratorium what proponents are seeking is more of a policy change for addressing minor violations.

The gesture would help the Police Department as it works to build good relationships with the public and would be a good move by  council members because it would show they are listening to the concerns of a portion of the city’s population, Carrizosa said.

Under the most recent proposal, police would give undocumented immigrants stopped for a minor violation a chance to contact a licensed driver and have that person collect the vehicle rather than having it impounded.

A city staff report said the proposal raises questions such as what would be a reasonable amount of time an officer should give a person to find a licensed driver.

Police Chief Paul Capraro recommends the council reject the resolution, a city staff report said.

Adopting it “will significantly impinge on the current operations of the Pomona Police Department and will not positively affect public safety in Pomona,” the report said.

Capraro said the proposal is difficult to implement in part because of the Police Department’s limited number of sworn personnel and officers would not be able to respond to other calls while they wait for a stopped driver to find a licensed driver to take the vehicle.

“This is a busy department. There is no way we can do that,” Capraro said.

The resolution  calls for police to work with organizations such as the Pomona Economic Opportunity Center to assist undocumented immigrants to prepare to apply for driver’s licenses.

Capraro said his department can work with organizations such as the center and discuss the documentation people will need to present to the  DMV; discuss the element of good driving consists  and how to prepare for the driver’s license test.

However, police will stop short of teaching people how to drive, Capraro said.
