
HAMMOND | A former Purdue University student lost his bid to vacate his conviction for threatening President George W. Bush and others associated with his administration and threatening to damage and destroy various facilities.

Vikram Buddhi was found guilty in June 2007 of 11 counts after the government presented evidence that he posted messages calling for the assassination of Bush and others as well as the bombing and destruction of power plants, roads, bridges, nuclear plants and other infrastructure.

He was sentenced in November 2009 to 57 months in prison and has since been released.

According to the information contained in U.S. District Judge James T. Moody's order dismissing Buddhi's motion to vacate his conviction, he has been living in India without any type of supervision from U.S. probation officials. At the time, however, Buddhi's term of supervised release had not yet expired.

Buddhi, a graduate of a prestigious university in India and son of a decorated Indian military veteran, was arrested in April 2006 on the charges. Buddhi's first lawyer, John Martin, argued the comments were not threats but crude contributions to political debate protected under the First Amendment.

In 2010, a New Delhi-based lawyer heading what he called a movement to free Buddhi called the man's conviction and imprisonment "a matter of shame for a country as mighty as the United States."

Moody noted Buddhi appealed his conviction, but that it was dismissed because of Buddhi's failure to follow through with the appeal.

In his recent motion, Buddhi brings forward 11 grounds for relief, including claims of ineffective assistance of counsel and insufficient evidence for a conviction. Moody, however, found that Buddhi failed to establish that his attorney's performance was deficient.

Buddhi also claimed procedural errors, but Moody noted these claims could have been made on direct appeal, which he failed to follow through with earlier.

Moody also found unpersuasive Buddhi's argument that he was actually innocent of the charges because his statements constituted advocacy instead of threats to do the actual acts.

In addition to dismissing the motion, Moody also dismissed a parallel civil case.

Copyright 2014 nwitimes.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
