
The Tehama County Secret Witness program is offering a $1,500 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of a man believed to have shot two men, killing one, while they were hiking near Red Bluff.

Friday, Francis “Pat” Gregory, 69, and a 76-year-old male friend were walking in the Iron Canyon Trail off Highway 36 East, north of Red Bluff, according to a news release. Sometime between 11:30 a.m. and noon the suspect approached the men and pulled a gun, demanding money and personal effects from the victims. After robbing them, the attacker shot the victims and left them in the area, about 100 yards from the trail head.

The suspect is described as a 6-foot-tall adult male with a thin build, short black hair and a black mustache and beard.

A hiker found the victims about three hours later and contacted law enforcement, according to the news release. Gregory died at the scene, and his friend was airlifted to an area hospital for treatment. He is in critical condition. Tehama County Sheriff’s deputies have interviewed him, Lt. Yvette Borden said.

The area is a popular hiking trail, about 5 miles north on Highway 36 East away from Highway 99 East in Red Bluff, and there were likely several other people on the trail at the time of the attack, Borden said.

Detectives are seeking any information that may help them in the investigation, Borden said.

Gregory is remembered as a civic leader in his community of West Tisbury, Massachusetts. His friend, whose identity has not been released for his protection, is from Manton.

The Sheriff’s Office urges anyone with additional information or who spotted something suspicious to contact Detective Jeff Garrett at 529-7920 ext. 3032 or Tehama County Sheriff’s Dispatch at 529-7900.

Secret Witness is offering a $1,500 reward for the arrest, prosecution and conviction of the shooter. Secret Witness callers can remain anonymous. Tehama County Secret Witness can be reached at 529-1268.

Ready to subscribe to the Redding Record Searchlight? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-710-6185.
