
Although charges were dropped Friday against two workers who were arrested in March while doing community outreach on behalf of the Grassroots Collaborative , the organization is alleging the men were racially profiled by Chicago Police.

While the men, 19-year-old Kevin Tapia and 20-year-old Felipe Hernandez, appeared before a judge Friday afternoon, supporters gathered outside of the South Side courthouse, protesting and calling for reforms to stop-and-frisk policies in the Chicago Police Department (CPD).

“All we were trying to do was help people sign up for the Affordable Care Act ... I want to be able to walk the streets of my city and not think about me being different from my environment,” said Hernandez.

On March 25, Hernandez and Tapia, both Latino, were knocking on doors in the Garfield Ridge neighborhood on the city’s Southwest Side, to inform residents about the March 31 deadline for the Affordable Care Act . They were stopped by Chicago Police officers, searched, detained and subsequently charged with misdemeanor soliciting unlawful business.

When officers arrived, Hernandez and Tapia were reportedly unable to produce identification that showed they worked for the Grassroots Collaborative. They were also unable to say who their supervisor was, Adam Collins, a CPD spokesman, told the newspaper.

On Friday, a judge dismissed the charges. But Hernandez and Tapia will still have the get the arrest expunged from their records.

“While I’m glad that the charges against me were dismissed, it is just part of a larger problem of racial profiling. Since I was arrested, how many other Chicagoans have been profiled and criminalized by the Chicago Police Department because they aren't white?” Hernandez said moments after the judge's ruling.

Activists with the Grassroots Collaborative called on the CPD to increase police accountability by collecting more comprehensive data on officers’ use of the stop-and-frisk policy.

Activists called for reform and compared Chicago’s contact cards with the more detailed contact cards of New York City.

New York City’s detailed contact cards, Patel said, are key to getting data on instances of racial profiling during police stops.

“The lack of information [in Chicago] means that our communities don’t know the real story of what’s happening,” Patel said.

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced in January that the city would settle two class-action lawsuits over police stop-and-frisk tactics and agree to policy reforms after a federal judge ordered police stop tactics in NYC unconstitutional in August.

“Don’t Chicago residents have the same civil rights as New Yorkers?” Patel asked.

In April, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced that the Justice Department will collect data about stops, searches and arrests nationwide . Funded through $4.75 million in grants, the move is part of a larger effort to analyze and reduce the effects of racial bias within the criminal justice system.

“Racial disparities contribute to tension in our nation generally and within communities of color specifically, and tend to breed resentment towards law enforcement that is counterproductive to the goal of reducing crime,” Holder said in a statement.

Meanwhile in Chicago, police contact cards are vague and not used exclusively during stops, meaning Chicago’s stop-and-frisk data is not easy to analyze, according to Lindsay Miller, a staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois (ACLU) .

“The current Chicago Police contact cards are badly flawed,” she said.

In Chicago, a “small amount of data” shows that communities of color are disproportionately targeted for stop-and-frisk activity, Miller claims.

Miller said in 30 percent of ACLU analyzed cases, the organization did not have enough information to determine whether the police stop in Chicago was lawful.
