
WOLFEBORO, N.H. — The 82-year-old police official who publicly referred to President Obama by a racial epithet and then would not apologize has resigned his post, town officials here confirmed Monday.

Robert Copeland, the head of Wolfeboro’s three-member police commission, turned in his resignation to the town manager and police chief Monday morning. His resignation comes as several of New Hampshire’s most prominent politicians — including Sens. Kelly Ayotte (R) and Jeanne Shaheen (D) and Gov. Maggie Hassan (D) — had called for his ouster.

Several local lawmakers and community leaders also have called for Copeland’s resignation.

The firestorm erupted this month when Jane O’Toole, who moved to Wolfeboro about four months ago, overheard Copeland loudly describing Obama using the slur while sitting in a town restaurant. Upon discovering that he was an elected official, O’Toole formally complained to the town manager and other members of the police commission.

The three-member police commission, an elected body charged with hiring the town’s police force, plans to meet this week. It is unclear whether Copeland will be asked to step down.

Republican Mitt Romney, who challenged Obama in the 2012 election and who owns a vacation home in Wolfeboro, also has called for Copeland to resign.

Wesley Lowery covers Capitol Hill for The Fix and Post Politics.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
