
State police reported Boubacar Tounkara, 24, was taken into custody at 1:45 a.m. Saturday and was lodged at Indiana County Jail to await court action related to an investigation of an assault at his residence at 528 Old Route 119 South.

Troopers at Indiana withheld the name of a 24-year-old Pittsburgh woman who accused Tounkara. Police said the victim suffered minor injuries.

State police reported that someone broke a flower pot between 9 p.m. Wednesday and 8 a.m. Thursday on the 800 block of Laurel Street.

Troopers didn’t identify the owner of the damaged property.

An intruder or intruders broke into the Dixonville Commons building at 2170 Barr Slope Road between March 7 and Tuesday, state police reported Sunday.

The suspect stole about 200 pounds of copper wire and scrawled graffiti in the interior of the building.

Dixonville Commons, the former home of Greensteel and PolyVision manufacturing operations, now is owned by LIFT — Local Initiative For Tomorrow — and operated as a multi-tenant business and industrial center.

Investigators asked anyone with information to phone the Indiana state police  station at (724) 357-1960.

State police withheld the name of a man who was wounded at 9:32 p.m. Wednesday when he dropped a gun at 798 Larch Road.

The firearm accidentally discharged and the man suffered a wound of his left arm. He was sent to Memorial Medical Center in Johnstown for treatment, according to police.

No other medical information was released.

Somebody scratched the doors of a pickup truck belonging to Gregory Wisneski Sr., 59, between Friday and Sunday, while the truck was parked at his residence along Hummingbird Drive, state police reported.

Thomas Fetter Jr. told police that someone stole his key ring and keys between 3:50 and 4:10 p.m. Wednesday at 2121 Dailey Ave.

State police reported someone drove off Lattimer Lane and ran over about 50 small trees on property owned by Keith Enos between 9 p.m. Friday and 7 a.m. Saturday.

Troopers at Greensburg gave no estimate of the damage.

SIOUX FALLS, S.D. (AP) — Don  Meyer, one of the winningest coaches in college basketball who came back  from a near-fatal car accident and liver cancer before closing out his  career, died in South Dakota. He was 69.

Disclaimer: Copyright © 2014 Indiana Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
