
Temple Terrace Police confirm 9-year-old Felecia Williams’ body was found floating near Courtney Campbell Causeway Saturday.

TEMPLE TERRACE, Fla. - Grief counselors were on hand at Edison Elementary on Monday as classmates of Felecia Williams, 9, showed up to the news she would never return.

"Some of them already knew some details," said Katie Wiles, one of the Crisis Team members assigned to Edison for the day.

Felecia was a third grader at Edison.  Full of life and very nice, according to those who say they knew her and her family.

"She had a good heart and a good spirit," said Leslie Charles-House, who knew the family from church.

Charles-House said the little girl family and church friends called "Sugarplum" was the sweetest thing.  But sometimes that's why she worried about how trusting Felecia was.  She says she was especially worried once before, when she saw Felecia out and about in her neighborhood, alone.

"She said, 'I'm going home, I'm just waiting on my friend' and I said okay baby, just be careful, take care of yourself," said Charles-House.

Cherese Hall is a mother of seven and has a granddaughter who attends Edison.  She said the loss is heartbreaking for so many, even those who never met Felecia.

"My heart goes out to the family and the mother especially," said Hall.  "The mother and father.  Because I couldn't bare to lose a child, you know? That's a hurtful feeling."

That woman, Eboni Wiley, 23, was arrested by Temple Terrance police for giving false information when questioned about the little girl's disappearance.  She has since posted bond.

Temple Terrace Police say they aren't releasing details about the investigation at this time because they don't want to jeopardize any leads they may have.

"What we really try to focus the most on is getting them to express how they are feeling how the loss of a classmate has affected them," said Wiles.

Some of the third graders made drawings for their classmate.  One very detailed by one classmate.  Showing a little girl, crying in the rain, standing next to what appeared to be a tombstone.

It's a pain young children and adults alike are dealing with.  All in their own way.  But the same question remains for all of them: who murdered Felecia Williams.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
