
Taxpayers are shelling out nearly £10million a year so police officers and staff can do union work.

Despite the financial squeeze leading to huge falls in police budgets, spending on union activity has shot up by 65 per cent in just two years, figures suggest.

The vast majority of that money pays the salaries of representatives from the Police Federation, the embattled body rocked by a series of scandals over recent months.

The figures were uncovered by Tory MP Dominic Raab, who questioned last night why so much money was being spent on ‘trouble-making militants’.

A poll conducted by the Federation itself showed that one in four people are not confident that police tell the truth.

A damning report by MPs found that nearly two-thirds of files handed to prosecutors were inadequate.

The Public Accounts Committee said that files written by the police had ‘consistently worsened’ over recent years.

The Federation, which is still facing fallout from the Plebgate scandal, is under immense pressure to reform after a review found tens of millions of pounds were held in secret ‘number 2’ accounts by local branches without any oversight by senior officers.

Insiders also came forward to condemn a  culture of bullying, credit card spending and political campaigning by  the organisation, while the Mail also revealed details of a ‘blitzkrieg’  strategy to halt Government reforms to pay and conditions.

The figures were uncovered by Tory MP Dominic Raab, who condemned the increase as 'shocking'

This week Home Secretary Theresa May will address the conference and is widely expected to deliver a tough message, as Federation members vote on reform proposals.

Police minister Damian Green has said that if the Federation does not put its house in order the Government will change the law to enforce change.

Last night Mr Raab condemned the increase in spending on staff.

His figures showed the number of full-time police officers and staff engaged in full-time union activity was 238 in 2012/13, up from 174 in 2010/11.

The total cost of police officers and staff engaged in union activity was £9,927,570 last year, up 65 per cent from £6,029,806 in 2010/11.

The Federation represents the rank and file among the 130,000 officers in England and Wales. Police staff, who include PCSOs and administrators, are represented by other unions, including Unison and PCS.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
