
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Crates, insulation and other materials piled up near Burlington Electric Department's Pine Street office await disposal after the city demolished an encampment where Forrest Bryant, 40, was found dead.

Burlington police have arrested a man they say is "a person of interest" in a death Saturday in a transient camp off Pine Street.

Mark Delude, 52, of Burlington was taken into custody on suspicion of obstruction of justice. He was initially arrested Saturday and was arraigned Monday for an unrelated charge of unlawful trespass arising from an April 18 incident at a Rite Aid store in Burlington.

Delude was held for lack of $1,000 bail for the unlawful trespass charge, and on $25,000 bail for the obstruction charge.

Authorities say they consider Delude "a person of interest" in the death of Forrest Bryant, 40, a transient who had been living in the Burlington area for about three months.

Delude and Bryant were involved in an altercation the night or early morning before Bryant's body was found, city police said. A short time later, witnesses at the scene found Bryant dead, but Delude attempted to stop anyone from calling police and rescue personnel, the authorities said Monday.

The Vermont Chief Medical Examiner's Office has made no determination about the cause of Bryant's death or whether it was a homicide. The authorities from the start have characterized the death as suspicious.

Earlier Monday, police released Bryant's name after withholding it through the weekend as relatives were notified and the investigation proceeded.

Bryant, whom investigators described as a transient, is believed to have spent time in St. Albans, southern Vermont and New York in addition to Burlington.

Burlington Police Chief Michael Schirling said Monday that Bryant was known to police, although he had no arrest record with the agency.

Burlington Police Chief Michael Schirling gives a briefing on the death of Forrest Bryant, 40, at a encampment off Pine Street.

At about 7 a.m. Saturday, Burlington fire and police departments responded to the woods between 431 and 585 Pine St., where a man was reported as being unresponsive.

The man's body had no signs of significant external trauma, Schirling said, and there was no indication that a weapon was used. Bryant's body did show signs of involvement in an altercation, the chief added.

Schirling said he was unsure if Delude showed signs of having been in an altercation.

Toxicology results are pending, but the chief said the incident is believed to be unconnected to drugs. There was an indication that alcohol was present at the camp, Schirling said.

The obstruction charge is applies in Delude's case, the chief said, because of Delude's attempt to stop people from calling emergency personnel.

An affidavit sharing details of the incident was expected to be filed today with Vermont Superior Court in Burlington, where Delude is scheduled to be arraigned.

Delude was known to law enforcement. Chittenden County State's Attorney T.J. Donovan estimated the man had more than 75 arrests, including some for assaults. Most are misdemeanors, Donovan said.

Court records show his convictions include burglary, unlawful trespass, escape from custody and violating conditions of release.

The prosecutor described Delude as a transient. According to the affidavit for the recent unlawful trespass charge, Delude has failed to appear at court 17 times.

"I think it's important to note he's not charged with anything directly related to Mr. Bryant's death, but with this ongoing investigation and the need to ensure that we're being thorough and, well, that's it, being thorough, that it's important to turn over all the various rocks," Schirling said.

The chief said the medical examiner continues to work to determine what caused Bryant's death. The cause remained undetermined after an initial autopsy, and further details could take about three weeks.

Two days before the body was found, officials from Burlington, the police and social services were notified of the encampment.

"Efforts began the following day to contact people staying in the encampment using the HowardCenter Street Outreach Team," police said in a statement. "Team members contacted the campers and advised that they would have to remove their belongings by early this week as the encampments would be dismantled at the request of a private property owner and workers in the area."

The authorities said there was no known connection between that announcement and Bryant's death the next day.

The Street Outreach Team on Sunday contacted people in the camp to help them find resources and to tell them they would need to remove belongings before the camp was dismantled.

The 5-10 people who were in the encampment are receiving services in the community, Schirling said. Four or five people were in the area as the incident unfolded, the chief added.

Based on the structures found, Schirling said the encampment likely had been around for "some time."

Monday, crews used heavy machinery to remove the camp. Several other camps also were dismantled.

Encampments pose public health problems for inhabitants due to a lack of facilities and of warmth, Schirling said.

"It's no secret to anyone who lives in Chittenden County that encampments are a perennial issue throughout the county," the chief said.

The police department does not actively seek out encampments, the chief added.

"For the most part, we don't have a lot of issues with the encampments," he said, "but that's not to say they're a safe living arrangement." he said.

Anyone with any information about the case is asked to contact Detective My Nguyen at 540-2267.
