
GOVERNMENT transport enterprise, the Central Mechanical Equipment   Department (CMED) lost nearly $7 million in a botched fuel deal last  year, more  than double the initially reported amount, workers told  Parliament on Monday.

A parliamentary committee summoned former members of CMED’s workers’   committee, whose term has since expired but which was in office at the   pertinent time, as a probe into the fuel scam continues.

In March 2013, CMED paid $2,7 million upfront to First Oil, a local   company for the supply of four million litres of diesel through an  offshore  account belonging to a Hong Kong-based company  Micro-Petroleum, on the  recommendation of two state-owned companies,  Petrotrade and the National Oil  Infrastructure Company.

Petrotrade and Noic reportedly told CMED that they were holding First   Oil fuel at their depots. But First Oil failed to deliver the fuel,   prompting CMED to report the matter to the police in June. The case is  now  before the courts.

Presenting oral evidence before a parliamentary portfolio committee  on  transport and infrastructure development, former CMED workers’  committee  members said apart from losing out on the ill-fated fuel  transaction, the  parastatal had lost more in repaying funds it had  borrowed to finance the deal.

“We felt as a committee that it was not fair that this $3 million   went down the drain and the executive communicated to us that they   serviced the loan they got from the bank (ZB Bank) to the same tune (of   $3million) and it ended up being close to $7 million with interest,”  former  workers’ committee member, Eddie Bangwaya told Parliament.

The workers, who were initially reluctant to testify on the fuel  scam,  were offered protection by the committee chaired by Zanu PF Epworth legislator,  Amos Midzi, in terms of parliamentary privileges.

The workers said fuel supplies to CMED had become erratic since the  botched deal.

CMED finance executive Lysias Kunaka, who appeared before the   committee separately, said he was off sick when the payment was made.  Kunaka  said managing director Davison Mhaka and fuel manager Brian   Manjengwa, who has since been suspended, had signed the document.

Lawmakers asked him why he did not query the anomaly when he returned to  work.

“To what extent were you involved in the fuel procurement? From what  you  are saying it appears you are distancing yourself from the  processes,” Midzi  said.

Kunaka said he was not responsible for procurement and that the MD had  powers to bypass him and authorise payments.

“Any payment above $1,500 is authorised by the MD and in this case he  is  the one who authorised the payment. He saw it fit to authorise  payment,” Kunaka  said.
