
Law enforcement hopes to avoid future uncertainty.

Independent oversight is necessary for accountability in police departments.

MANCHESTER • The De Soto softball team picked up right where it left off while finishing third in Class 3 last season.

St. Louis County police headquarters in Clayton. Photo by Christian Gooden of the Post-Dispatch.

CLAYTON • Researchers from the University of California-Los Angeles are visiting with St. Louis County police this week to evaluate the department’s protocols on traffic stops and recommend ways to avoid racial profiling.

Researchers from UCLA’s Center for Policing Equity are touring police headquarters in Clayton today to share with officials the scope of their study.

Former Police Chief Tim Fitch recommended that UCLA’s researchers visit county police after anonymous letters to the chief last year accused Lt. Patrick “Rick” Hayes of ordering his officers to target blacks at the South County shopping areas. Hayes was fired last May after nine officers said they heard him issuing profiling orders laced with racial slurs. Hayes’ appeal to the police board is still pending.

Chief Jon Belmar says he welcomes the UCLA researchers’ input and hopes the department will be able to improve practices regarding unbiased policing.

The Center for Policing Equity has provided guidance to 44 communities across the country, including Las Vegas and Denver.

Smiedt said the group’s researchers also interview residents, police union representatives, business owners and community groups to explore their relationships with police. She said the study is likely to require numerous visits to the department over several months.

Last year, UCLA researchers conducted a similar study of the Las Vegas Metro Police Department, concluding it had an ineffective diversity training program that led to a greater likelihood of bias in use-of-force incidents, the Las Vegas Sun reported.

That study surveyed about two-thirds of Las Vegas’ nearly 3,400 officers, reviewed internal affairs complaints and analyzed 20 years of data on use of force.

Belmar said his own department will send representatives to Washington, D.C., in June to begin another study addressing racial profiling along with dozens of other U.S. police departments. That study is expected to take several months.

UCLA’s research is funded by public and private grants and will not cost local taxpayers.

“We thought this was a pretty easy step to take to make sure that we had the best practices in place,” Belmar said.

Copyright 2014 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
