
PHOENIX (KSAZ) - An Arizona woman and her 14 year-old daughter were hit by a wrong-way driver in March of last year along Interstate 17. In an instant, their lives were changed forever thanks to a wrong-way driver who police say was drunk.

"I am not sure what the problem is, I don't know how we can fix it, I don't know what we can do to stop it, I just know that it needs to be stopped," said Chance Molzan.

For 14 year-old Chance Molzan, all recent wrong-way crashes bring back awful memories.

"The nerve of some people to ruin others lives,' she said.

The 14 year-old and her mother were heading to the airport for a school trip when they were hit by a wrong-way driver on I-17.

Chance had to have surgery on her legs and hands.

"I just recently started running again, in the past year or so, that helps. I have been hiking, walking around, just trying to do whatever to help me," said Chance.

Chance's mother survived but has suffered from serious brain injuries. The drunk wrong-way driver was sentenced to more than 10 years in prison.

"It needs to be brought to the forefront, and it needs to be kept in the forefront, something needs to be done," said Bo Molzan.

"It can't be just brushed off; it can't be just "accidents; they happen", I'm sorry I don't classify someone going the wrong way on the interstate an accident, it is not an accident," he said.

Bo Molzan wants to see some type of barrier to prevent wrong-way drivers off the freeway.

"Quite frankly signs and blinking lights are not going to stop 90% of the people going the wrong-way on the freeway," he said.

"All the victims and all the survivors of Arizona's wrong-way freeway collisions need to bond together and be one powerful, mighty voice and make the state pay attention," said Bo.

His advice for someone who has been involved in a wrong-way accident is to stay strong and get involved.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Fox Television Stations, Inc. and Worldnow. All Rights   Reserved.
