
When Ashimiyu Alowonle walked into Hennepin County District Court on Monday, he knew he was going to prison.

But Alowonle had no idea that he was about to narrowly escape a sentence of 18 years behind bars. Telling Alowonle he would give him a chance to turn his life around, Judge Jay Quam sentenced him to six years.

A jury last week found Alowonle guilty of possessing three guns that a gang planned to use in retaliation for the death of a fellow gang member who was shot and killed at the Epic nightclub in Minneapolis last year.

Prosecutors say Alowonle was a high-ranking member of a street gang called the 1-9 Dipset or the 1-9 block Dipset also known as "Cash." Police say the gang got its name from the 1900 block of Newton Ave N. where many of the original members hung out.

Calling his arrest was the "most serious gun case I've seen in my career," Assistant Hennepin County attorney Joshua Larson asked Quam to sentence Alowonle to 12 years. Larson said Alowonle, 28, was determined to use the weapons to further a bloody conflict with members of YNT/Taliban.

During the trial, prosecutors played audio recordings of Alowonle talking on the phone to fellow gang members who were in prison. According to court documents, Alowonle plotted revenge for the shooting death of Tyrone Washington Jr. Prosecutors say in one conversation, Alowonle instructed an imprisoned fellow gang member to instruct other 1-9 Dipset prisoners to attack imprisoned members of a rival gang.

In December, police found seven guns and drugs in a north Minneapolis home with Alowonle and other gang members. One of the other men charged in the incident is scheduled for trial in June. Charges were dismissed against another.

Because Alowonle was convicted of a felony drug charge in 2006, he could not legally possess firearms. In 2010, he was convicted of illegal gun possession and given a five-year prison sentence. Alowonle was on parole for that conviction at the time he was arrested and charged and his parole was scheduled to expire in December.

Just before sentencing on his latest conviction, Quam said he learned that the penalties for Alowonle's three convictions for illegal gun possession for the benefit of a gang, could be imposed consecutively.

Alowonle told the judge he understood he was going to be sent to prison for a long time. However, he appeared upset after learning that his time in prison might increase threefold. Had he known before trial that he was facing 18 years in prison, Alowonle said, "I would have pleaded guilty to the 60 months."

But the judge had other ideas.

Although Quam noted the seriousness of the crimes, he ordered Alowanle him to serve the three six-year sentences at the same time -- and said he should his time in prison to think about using his talents to help his family and community.

The judge also stayed a court-imposed fine against Alowonle. He told Alowonle he should use the money he earns in prison to lead a straight life after leaving prison.

"You are obviously a bright guy," Quam said. "You can be a role model. People look up to you."

Alowonle will have to serve time on the parole violation before the clock starts running on the gun convictions.

Brandt Williams is a reporter with MPR News' Metro Unit.
