
The mother, Emma Mansell, 37, was killed in the knife attack at her home.

Her petrified sons Oscar, nine, and Freddie, 11, were also wounded during the brutal assault.

Their six-month-old sister Elise and a six-year-old lad – the son of Emma’s boyfriend – were understood to have suffered minor injuries.

Neighbour Natasha Yates, 25, said: “I heard the little boy come running up the street. He had blood on him.

“I heard him screaming and thought he had been run over at first, but then I could hear what he was shouting.

“He was screaming ‘I’ve been stabbed, someone help me. Someone needs to save my mummy, brothers and baby sister’.

“Someone took him inside and police and ambulance turned up.

"When the baby girl was brought from the house I thought she had been stabbed too, because she was covered in blood.

Another neighbour said: “I heard a noise and looked out of my blind. I saw the little boy and he was covered in blood.

“I saw my two other neighbours run out and as I came out they said at first a boy had been run over.

"He ran straight out of the alley of his house and on to the road.

“Later, someone came out with the baby and the blanket had blood all over it.

Police were last night waiting to question Emma’s boyfriend – named locally as Jonny Sutton, 39 – in connection with the killing of the mum-of-three in Huddersfield.

Jonny is believed to have received serious knife wounds to his throat and neck.

His injuries are described as “not life threatening” but because of his condition he had not been arrested.

Officers are at his hospital bedside ready to quiz him.

Jonny, a labourer, is the dad of Emma’s baby Elise. It is understood that he also has a teenage daughter.

It is believed that Emma split from husband Stuart Siswick 18 months ago and started using her maiden name.

Stuart, 45, is the father of Freddie and Oscar. One of the boys is understood to be at Huddersfield Royal Infirmary while the other was being treated at Leeds General Infirmary.

It is believed their mum died from a single stab wound. She had been rushed to an emergency unit but medics were unable to save her.

Police and rescue services arrived at the scene, which is just a few hundred yards from the town’s hospital, after frantic calls from stunned members of the public on Sunday evening.

Officers set up a white forensic tent on a grass verge close to the house, where the young boy is thought to have fallen to the ground after fleeing the horrifying bloodbath.

Specialist officers appeared to be searching the basement of the home. A team of detectives were also making house-to-house enquiries.

Emma’s ex, Stuart is believed to have spent most of the day at the bedsides of his two children.

Last night police had still not formally identified the victim and had not released details of the man they hope to question in connection with the killing.

An upstairs bedroom window was smeared in blood as forensic teams worked in the house and in the street.

Neighbour Marcel Adams said: “Everybody is shocked this morning. We knew the family very well.

“We all grew up in this area, and it’s just a huge shock to know that this has happened her.

“I knew her [Emma] very well. We grew up together as children and went to the same school.

Another resident Jayne Werritt said: “I heard a commotion at 9pm and I thought it was children playing.

"I’ve lived here a long time and what has happened is tragic.

It is believed that Emma had met her boyfriend in a pub and they had quickly struck up a relationship.

One woman who knows the couple said: “He is very good-looking. I used to fancy him myself.

The killing has left the tight-knit West Yorkshire community in shock.

Emma’s sister Nicola lives a few hundred yards away, as does her mum Pauline.

Emma’s ex Stuart lives less than a mile away. “Everyone around here knows her and her family. It is a huge shock” said one neighbour.

It is understood that Emma had lost a son to meningitis.

Marcel added: “I can’t believe this has happened to Emma.

“She was always so lovely and kind. She’s had a lot of things happen to her.

“She lost a child to meningitis years ago and she has always just tried to get on with things.

“I went to the hospital this morning and I bumped in to her sister Nicola.

“She came up to me and broke down in my arms.

“She told me that the two boys had been injured. I asked if they were both going to be OK and she said ‘yes’.

“Apparently, Emma was madly in love with her partner but I never knew him.

“I saw her a few months ago and she was crying so I asked what was wrong.

“She didn’t want to tell me but I told her that she knew where I was if she ever wanted to talk."

In a statement West Yorks police said: “Officers were called to Reinwood Road at 9.32pm last night [Sunday 18 May] after receiving calls about an ongoing domestic related incident at an address there.

“A 37-year-old woman was located inside the property who had suffered a serious stab injury. She was taken to hospital but later died.

“A nine-year-old boy was found outside the property who had suffered a stab wound to his arm.

"An 11-year-old boy was also found inside the property with stab wounds. Both remain in hospital at this time.

Senior investigating officer Detective Chief Inspector Ady Taylor said: “A 39-year-old man was detained at the scene and is being treated in hospital today for serious injuries.

"We are not looking for anyone else in connection with this incident.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
