
COIMBATORE: A 45-year-old mentally unstable man took to the wheels of an empty government bus halted at Sathyamangalam bus stand on Monday morning. Hailing from Bannari in Erode district, the culprit who was a former private bus driver, was in control of the vehicle for close to 60km on the national highway before a police team chased him down in a private car and took him into custody. Fortunately, no one was hurt in the incident.

According to police officials, the man has been identified as R Rajendran and he has been handed over to Sathyamangalam police. Police contacted his family who told them that Rajendran had been suffering from mental illness for the past couple of years.

He initially told police that he started driving the bus as he was in a hurry to get to the Coimbatore airport to purchase aircraft and helicopters. After verifying his medical records, police have registered a case against him. "We received information that an unidentified person had taken control of the bus from the bus stand and was proceeding towards Coimbatore," said V Dhanabal, Head Constable, Kovilpalayam Police Station.

According to police officials, R Ayrasu, driver of Tamil Nadu Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus plying from Sathy to Coimbatore had parked the vehicle inside the bus stand at 12.05pm and had gone to have lunch. Rajendran, who was reportedly loitering inside the bus stand got into the empty vehicle and drove out of the facility. TNSTC officials did not realize the bus had been 'taken' until Ayrasu found the bus missing after lunch.

"As soon as I realized the bus was missing, I notified the time keeper who passed on the message to his superiors and the police," said Ayrasu. Sathyamangalam police immediately relayed the message to West Zone Inspector General's office and an alert was issued to all police stations that the bus could be moving towards Coimbatore Kovilpalayam. A team of police officials from Kovilpalayam spotted the bus and tried to stop the vehicle but in vain. Subsequently, Special Sub Inspector Palanisamy and V Dhanabal got into a private car and chased the bus for 3km before they were able to take Rajendran into custody.

"Although Rajendran's relatives claim he is mentally unstable, he has given contradictory statements. We will produce him before a magistrate and will ensure his treatment if required. As of now we have a registered a case under section 379 against him," said R Muthusamy, inspector, Sathyamangalam police station.
