
Following a guilty plea made last December, Andrea Lorraine Avery of Los Angeles, California was sentenced last Wednesday for 7 charges that included conspiracy to commit fraud, five counts of mail fraud against a financial institution, and conspiracy to commit money laundering. For these financial crimes, she was sentenced to 7 years in prison, and must pay restitution in the amount of $10,323,369 to the FDIC.

In her plea agreement, Avery confessed that from the beginning of 2005 until 2008, she and co-conspirators applied to purchase 24 properties in Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Texas, and California.

Using fraudulent information such as false names and social security numbers, inflated income and assets and a misstatement regarding the earnest money deposit, Avery and her cronies were able to use mortgage applications to obtain numerous properties located in the Northern District of Florida, which included homes in Navarre, Santa Rosa Beach, and Panama City. All of the fraudulent information above was manageable through the submission of false paystubs,  W-2s, verifications of employment, and documentation concerning the borrower’s credit.

Although Avery and her co-conspirators received over $3.5 million in kickbacks from the scheme, approximately $16 million in loans was stolen as a result of the actions under this conspiracy. Washington Mutual, GMAC Mortgage, SunTrust Mortgage, Wells Fargo Bank, US Bank, and other financial institutions were the ones that took the blow in this attack. The restitution that the convicted woman must pay will be allocated to these lenders for their losses. The FDIC is a receiver for these funds.

We thank the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Assistant U.S. Attorney Tiffany H. Eggers for their work in bringing this criminal to justice.

My name is Maurice Bedard, but most people call me Moe. I am the founder of America's #1 Mortgage Forum, LoanSafe.org, and also a website design firm called We Create Web Designs. My online work has been featured in the New York Times, LA Times, Fox Business, and many other media publications. I currently live in Carlsbad, California with my beautiful wife and children.

Get free unbiased help with your tough questions. Start your own threads and post replies with over 60,000 people just like you.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
