
AN EX-security guard armed with a replica handgun was shot dead by a former workmate during a botched robbery on the Gold Coast yesterday.

The 46-year-old Upper Coomera man, a married father of five with no significant criminal history, ambushed an armed guard from the very firm he used to work for outside the Highland Park Tavern about 7.40am.

The victim was a guard for Border Security until he was laid off earlier this year.

Reports suggest he was believed to be bitter from his dismissal and struggling to provide for his wife and five children and tried to use his inside knowledge of the security company’s operations to plan the perfect robbery.

Wearing a motorcycle helmet to conceal his identity, he pulled a 9mm hand gun on his former colleague, who was delivering the pub’s daily float.

While the assailant’s gun wasn’t real, the guard’s was.

Three shots were fired during a desperate struggle which left one man dead and the other spattered with blood.

It was not until police removed the motorcycle helmet the bandit had been wearing did his former colleague realise he had been forced to kill a former workmate.

Police said the 47-year-old guard was deeply shaken and would undergo counselling.

The Highland Park Tavern, on Alexander Drive, Highland Park, was the scene of the bloody drama.

Nearby William Duncan State School was also locked down.

The victim was unemployed, but had no links to organised crime or bikie gangs and had not been charged with any offence for more than 15 years.

Police sources told The Courier-Mail the two men would have known each other, but only vaguely, and there was no suggestion of bad blood between the pair.

However, police believe the would-be robber was banking on inside knowledge of his former firm’s work methods to carry out the daring daylight ambush.

They also believe he was acting alone.

His car was found down a nearby side street about 2pm.

The man’s devastated widow spent yesterday afternoon with Coomera detectives while the security guard, a 47-year-old man, spent the day being interviewed by detectives, and has not been charged.

He may not ever face charges and was licensed to carry a gun.

Border Security general manager Leanne Walsh, a former police officer, did not return phone calls to The Courier-Mail.

Detective Superintendent David Hutchinson of Gold Coast Police said the guard was badly shaken.

“He would have been acting instinctively and it was over very quickly,” he said.

His lawyer, high-profile defence solicitor Jason Jacobson, said the guard was feeling the strain.

“It’s a horrible thing that’s happened,” he said.

A report is being prepared for the coroner.

Police are still calling for any witnesses or anyone with information to contact Crime Stoppers 1800 333 000.
