
Share This Story!

Trevor Lehman is gratified that he will be reinstated after being terminated as an officer more than 10 months ago.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Officer Trevor Lehman was terminated after a video captured him allegedly striking a man pulled over for driving with a revoked license in February of 2013.

Trevor Lehman is humble but gratified that he will be reinstated to the Fort Myers Police Department by July 1 after having been terminated as an officer more than 10 months ago.

Lehman said that following his July 2013 termination and during the arbitration process he was confident that at some point he would be reinstated.

"I was extremely confident. This is my life and my career," he said. "I didn't think there was any other outcome."

The nearly four-year Fort Myers police officer was fired in summer 2013 after an internal investigation found he used excessive force during a traffic stop in February 2013.

Officer Trevor Lehman, 28, was released July 10 after the investigation, which centered on him reportedly striking Chaylon D. McClary three times in the head and neck during an arrest for a traffic violation, deemed Lehman's actions violated department policy.

At that time, Police Chief Doug Baker said he fired the officer because Lehman committed several policy violations.

"Obviously, that's not what I want to portray to the public," Baker said in July 2013. "As police officers, and as we go out and perform our duties, that's not what we want to portray who we are."

The reinstatement which came Monday after an arbitrator ruled Lehman return to work with full back pay and benefits such as vacation and sick pay.

The chief said he disagreed with the arbitrator, but he respects the process that resulted in the reinstatement.

"What's paramount to me is the public's confidence in the process," he said. "This was a decision that was made in July that came with a lot of controversy."

The incident Lehman was fired over was caught on a cruiser dashboard camera. The video shows Lehman hitting McClary in the back of the head during an arrest. The department said the officer's actions were excessive.

"I don't have a vendetta," Lehman said Monday at his father's Cape Coral home. "I just want to pick up the pieces and go back to work. I'm sure 90 percent of the department is behind me."

Lawyer Mike Braverman of Fort Lauderdale, who represented Lehman, was satisfied with the result.

"We're very happy with the decision," he said. "We're happy Trevor was vindicated and returned to duty."

Asked how he will handle himself at work, Lehman said he doesn't think his 10-month ordeal will be a negative.

"I won't be scared or timid to do what I have to do," he said. He also thanked the Citizens Police Review Board for basically recommending the same outcome as he received Monday. Lehman will be reinstated and will also have to serve 40-hours of suspension for foul language stemming from the McClary incident.

Lehman told investigators the use of force was justified. The police union supported Lehman.

Other responding officers told investigators McClary was resisting arrest, and the video shows McClary kicking, flailing and screaming as four officers tried to detain him. McClary was later charged with resisting an officer without violence as well as driving with a suspended license.

On Feb. 4, 2013, Lehman and officer Brandon Birch were on patrol with the Violent Crimes Task Force, when they saw McClary filling a brown Chevrolet El Camino with gas at the Circle K on Hanson Street, according to an investigation report.

The officers, who recognized McClary as someone they had previously arrested on driver's license infractions, learned McClary's license had been permanently revoked and tried to follow him as he left the station.

McClary lost the officers, went back to the gas station, got out of the vehicle and went inside.

A short time later, officers saw a woman driving a red Dodge Intrepid arrive at the gas station, take keys from McClary and drive away in the El Camino. McClary then drove away in the Intrepid.

The officers followed McClary and tried to stop him in a driveway on Canal Street. They said they saw him move from the driver's seat to the passenger's seat as they placed a spot light on the vehicle.

The video shows Lehman approach the passenger side of the vehicle with his weapon out, try to open the door and yell "Get out of the (expletive deleted) car."

McClary exits the car, and a struggle ensues over the next few minutes as many as five officers try to detain him, eventually dragging him to the ground.

McClary kicks and flails as officers try to detain him and screams throughout the arrest.

The video shows Lehman striking McClary in the head and neck at least three times with his hand and striking McClary with his knee several times.

McClary has an extensive criminal history in Lee County with more than 30 charges including multiple drug, armed robbery and theft charges, according to Lee County Sheriff's Office records.

With the ordeal over, Lehman's father, a retired Fort Myers police officer with more than 20 years experience, said he was proud of his son and pleased with the ruling.

"This is a long-time coming," he said. "Braverman represented him better than I could ever have imagined."

The elder Lehman, who retired three days before his son applied for the force in 2008, said the video was self-explanatory. "Everybody saw it for what it was," he said.

"We put up a fight and got the whole community behind us," he said. "And he got his job back."

Neither Lehman faulted Baker.

"I think the chief had something on his mind, and he did what he thought was right," Marty Lehman said. "There's no animosity with Chief Baker. My son is going back to work and will work with Chief Baker."

Trevor Lehman said the termination and reinstatement has not soured him on Fort Myers.

"That's my home, that's my team," he said of the city and the police force.

Connect with this reporter: MichaelBraunNP (Facebook) @MichaelBraunNP (Twitter). The News-Press archives contributed to this report.
