
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

KALAMAZOO, MI -- A look at sentences handed down Monday in Kalamazoo County Circuit Court .

Matthew Lee Dodson, 26, of Schoolcraft, was ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs and state fees for possession of less than 25 grams of a controlled substance as a second-time habitual offender in October 2012 in Kalamazoo.

Jesse Bleu Fortin, 25, of Twin Lake, was sentenced to nine months in jail and ordered to pay state fees and restitution for unlawful driving away of a motor vehicle as a second-time habitual offender in October in Schoolcraft Township.

James Anthony Gates, 33, of Centre Avenue, was sentenced to 18 months to 90 months in prison and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for third-degree fleeing police as a second-time habitual offender in February in Parchment. Gates also was sentenced to 93 days in jail and ordered to pay state fees for operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated.

Christopher Jerrod Hayes, 45, of South Park Street, was sentenced to 18 months of probation, entry into the Kalamazoo Probation Enhancement Program, and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for first-degree retail fraud as a third-time habitual offender in February in Oshtemo Township.

Robert Francis Jackson, 22, of Forest Harbor Drive, was sentenced to seven days in jail and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs and state fees for possession of less than 25 grams of a controlled substance in May 2013 in Comstock Township.

Johnnie Earl Kirby, 56, of Bixby Road, was sentenced to six months in jail, three years of probation and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for second-degree home invasion as a second-time habitual offender in January in Kalamazoo Township.

Charles Frank Olinger, 40, of West Q Avenue, was sentenced to 98 days in jail, two years of probation, entry into the Drug Treatment Court Program and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for breaking and entering of a building with intent and unlawful use of a motor vehicle as a second-time habitual offender in January in Texas Township.

Rebecca Ann Randall, 24, of Poplar Place, was sentenced to five months in jail and ordered to pay state fees for a probation violation stemming from an original charge of false pretenses of more than $1,000 but less than $20,000 in April 2013 in Kalamazoo.

Brian Francis Rice II, 23, of Concord Place Drive, was sentenced to three months in jail and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs and state fees for possession of analogues in July in Portage.

Veronica Lynn Shaffer, 36, of Richland, was sentenced to three years to 20 years in prison and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for operating/maintaining a methamphetamine lab in August 2012 in Kalamazoo Township.

Dillon Robert Stafford, 24, of Vicksburg, was sentenced to three years to 20 years in prison and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs and state fees for operating/maintaining a methamphetamine lab in November 2011 in Kalamazoo. Stafford also was sentenced to six months in jail and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs and state fees for possession of methamphetamine/ecstasy in April 2012 in Cooper Township.

Leroy Monroe Walker, 20, of Benton Harbor, was sentenced to four months in jail and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for getting and concealing a stolen motor vehicle in March in Kalamazoo.

William Albert Valkema, 31, of Dutchess Drive, was sentenced to two months in jail, two years of probation and ordered to pay state fees and restitution for stealing/retaining a financial-transaction device as a second-time habitual offender in January in Kalamazoo.

Judge Gary C. Giguere Jr.

Antonio DeShawn Brown, 34, of Sunnyside Drive, was sentenced to three months in jail and ordered to pay state fees for possession of less than 25 grams of a controlled substance in March in Kalamazoo Township.

Antoine Bernard Cantrell, 20, of Copper Beech Drive, was resentenced to 81 months to 15 years in prison and ordered to pay stae fees for armed robbery in December 2012 in Kalamazoo.

Stephen Christopher DeJong, 20, of Greenleaf Circle, was sentenced to two years to 15 years in prison and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for second-degree home invasion and unlawful driving away of a motor vehicle in December in Kalamazoo.

Lisa Jean Earley, 48, of Lamont Street, was sentenced to seven months in jail, three years of probation and ordered to pay state fees and restitution for uttering and publishing (writing counterfeit checks) as a third-time habitual offender in October in Parchment.

Timothy Star Terry, 32, of Roosevelt Avenue, was sentenced to 51 months to 20 years in prison and ordered to pay state fees for a probation violation stemming from an original charge of delivery/manufacture of methamphetamine/ecstasy in October 2012 in Cooper Township.

Savanna Kay Waffle, 20, of Florence Street, was sentenced to 21 days in jail, one year of probation and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for assaulting/resisting/obstructing police in February in Kalamazoo.

John James Weaver, 23, of Galesburg, was sentenced to 57 days in jail, four years of probation, entry into the Swift and Sure Sanctions Program, and ordered to pay state fees for arson and domestic violence in September in Charleston Township and possession of methamphetamine/ecstasy in December in Comstock Township.

Emily Ann Borton, 24, of Belleville, was sentenced to 48 days in jail and ordered to pay attorney fees, court costs, state fees and restitution for uttering and publishing (writing counterfeit checks) in June 2012 in Portage.

Juyan Oneil Heard, 32, who is in Michigan Department of Corrections custody, was sentenced to six years to 30 years in prison and ordered to pay state fees and restitution for armed robbery in June 2012 in Kalamazoo. Heard also was sentenced to two years in prison for felony use of a firearm in June 2012 in Kalamazoo. Heard's sentence for felony firearm precedes and is consecutive to his sentence for armed robbery.

Demetra Michelle Jones, 49, of Horace Avenue, was sentenced to one day in jail, one year of probation and ordered to pay state fees for delivery/manufacture of marijuana in February in Kalamazoo.

Amanda Michelle Knight, 24, of Battle Creek, was sentenced to 62 days in jail, four years of probation and ordered to pay state fees and restitution for unarmed robbery in June in Kalamazoo.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
