
Share This Story!

A tip leading to an illegal cockfighting event led to 19 arrests on a Yolo County farm Saturday night.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A bird recovered from a Yolo County cockfight.

YOLO COUNTY, Calif. - A tip leading to an illegal cockfighting event led to 19 arrests on a Yolo County farm Saturday night.

Yolo County sheriff's deputies swept down on a small farm halfway between Woodland and Davis near County Road 28, arresting 14 people for being present at an illegal cockfight and five others for animal cruelty, conspiracy and possession of bird fighting equipment.

"I believe we got at least a couple of them who were the main players, which is always good," said Sgt. Mike Nevis, with Yolo County Animal Services.

Booked into the Monroe Center were Esteban Birelas, age 34 of Dixon, Fililogonio Escarcega, age 52 of Petaluma, Miguel Angel Garcia, age 51 of Richmond, Jorge Gonzalez Garcia, age 50 of Richmond and Luis Antonio Bravo Cabrera, age 40 from Sacramento. Four of the suspects were held on $20,000 bail except for Birelas who was held on $60,000 bail. All have since bailed out of custody.

Officers recovered 10 dead roosters, 52 live roosters, cockfighting spurs and approximately $15,000 in cash. Ten additional roosters were confiscated at the scene but had to be euthanized as a result of their injuries.

"You can make very good money at it. There's a lot of money that changes hands. It's an illegal way of gambling," Nevis said.

When officers arrived, about 70 people scattered in every direction, with some smashing their way through the walls of the barn where the cockfighting ring was set up, and others running into a wheat field beside the barn.

Officers said a pair of juveniles were also taken into custody.

"And it's pretty horrific that they would be able to sit there and watch something like that," said Nevis.

Although state law calls for prison time of up to five years for cockfighting, Nevis said most of those arrested only pay fines and do community service.

"For the most part, they'll just pay a heavy fine and they'll be out doing it the next weekend," Nevis said.

Even the roosters that are rescued are nearly always euthanized.

"Most of them are extremely violent. Once you put a bird next to another one, he's going to go out and he's going to kill it," Nevis said.

Nevis would like to see tougher laws.

"Not only for the participants but actually even for the people that are viewing these events."
