
An emergency meeting of the Directors-General of proximate countries of Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria, which share a common border, has ended in a joint cross border patrol agreement.

The meeting which had in attendance the National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki and the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) David Paradang, was organised by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in Abuja last week, as part of efforts to win the war against terrorism in Nigeria.

The meeting was in pursuance to the mandate given by the 19th Conference of Directors-General of Customs of West and Central Africa of the World Customs Organization (WCO) at Yaoundé, recently.

The four other countries at the 2-day strategic meeting were represented by a three-man delegation led by the respective Director Generals of their Customs administrations.

Speaking at the formal opening of the meeting, the Comptroller-General of Customs Abdullahi Dikko, informed that top on the agenda is the consideration and adoption to seek the mandate of the respective governments to establish joint patrol teams along the common borders to promote security.

Also up for adoption he said, was the resolve to share timely intelligence amongst the sister administrations in all matters of cross-border crimes and to resolve to implement the Protocol on Transit Trade between the common borders as well as to deepen and facilitate trade among the countries.

“We are thinking beyond the smuggling of arms and ammunition, the issue is being compounded by insurgency attacking Nigerian citizens and running away to these neighbouring countries. Today it is Nigeria, tomorrow it may be another country, and if we are harbouring criminals in our various countries attacking our neighbours and run away to get a safe haven in another country I think we are not being fair with ourselves,” Dikko said.

He further explained that there had been no collaboration on border management between the countries before now and expressed the hope that with a joint border patrol and support of the heads of the various governments things will change for the better.

Giving his remarks, the NSA emphasised that for Nigeria and the other countries, there was an added responsibility for customs officers to be extra vigilant and provide security at their borders especially, given the Boko Haram insurgency.

“Given all sorts of illegal activities with all the dire consequences, your organisation now more than ever before have a role to play by ensuring that terrorists, criminals, smugglers and perpetrators of illegal activities across borders do not have a field day,” he said.

He noted that the job of providing security at the borders can only be carried out successfully with collaboration of all security agencies present at the borders such as the police, immigration and other relevant agencies.

According to Dasuki, the decisions which would be arrived at by the meeting will be useful to overcoming the challenges of terrorism, smuggling, sea piracy and other illegal activities confronting the countries.

The communiqué commended the joint border patrol currently in operation between Nigeria and Niger and urged the other countries to make consultations with their governments to seek necessary approvals to extend same to the rest of the region, work out the modalities, supporting logistics as well as the command and control structure.

It called on national governments to support joint cross borders patrols through the provision of adequate vehicles and equipment and expressed support for current efforts to establish joint border posts among countries in the proximate region, and take concrete actions to put in place the modalities for actual implementation.

The communiqué agreed on the communication of significant seizures and method of concealment among the Customs administrations to enable the building of formidable risk profiles of cross-border operators.

It also noted the use of ICT tools to facilitate exchange of information between the Customs administrations and to establish clearly the documents and instruments that will be exchanged among them to ensure transparency and work towards conclusion of mutual administrative assistance agreements between them.

It resolved to have strict adherence to the provisions of transit protocols in the regional economic groups to enhance regional trade and foster professionalism in Customs operations, streamline the operation of check points by Customs administrations through the use of professional tools, and removal of those in the hinter-lands.

The meeting resolved to collaborate with partner government agencies to reduce non-tariff barriers associated with movement of goods across borders, and implement fast track concessions for compliant traders in line with international best practices.

It also resolved to organize awareness seminars to build compliance among stakeholders and training programmes to build the capacity of Customs operatives as well as establish focal points within the Customs administrations to communicate within the region movement of goods, and pursue on-going projects related to interconnectivity of computer systems.

According to the communiqué, the resolutions were reached in consciousness of the worrisome situation along the borders of the five proximate countries of Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria.

Also the resolution were arrived at “noting the close economic and cultural bonds that exist between the peoples and nationalities of our proximate countries, aware that Customs plays critical role in facilitating intra-regional trade and security, realising the need for collaboration of our Customs administrations in the areas of patrol operations, sharing of intelligence and capacity building,” the communiqué said.

Furthermore, the meeting realized that the absence of synergy between the Customs administrations and existing communication gaps constitute obstacle to effective Customs operations, even as it noted the non-adherence to the existing protocols on transit trade and its negative effect on national revenue and security of the countries.

It was also noted that smugglers often resort to the use of complicated transit arrangement through more than two countries to evade payment of Customs duties or contravention of the law and that the multiplicity of tax imposed on goods traded between the five countries discourage the growth of intra-regional trade.

Other factors that informed that resolution was the realisation of the importance of collaboration between Customs and other relevant government agencies to enhance national and regional security as well as the recognition of the importance of political support for customs administrations and their operations.
