
Susan Pagnac Sr. sat in a friend's Brooklyn Center garage most of Monday, fielding questions from reporters about Amy Sue Pagnac, her daughter missing for 25 years.

The 13-year-old girl had disappeared, abducted, her parents believe, from a gas station near her home in August 1989.

The investigation by Maple Grove police had gone cold, the mother said, until Sunday when authorities showed up at her home and told her to pack a bag.

"I said, 'Yep, you're here, you're doing something, great,' " Pagnac said.

That something includes scouring Pagnac's home, excavating the lawn and cordoning off a block of Hemlock Lane to outside traffic.

Neighbors interviewed Sunday by the Pioneer Press said they suspected something was amiss at the two-story home for years, recounting Pagnac and her husband, Marshall Midden, doing extensive landscaping in the years after the disappearance.

On Monday, Pagnac said the vicious rumors are being repeated by neighbors whom they have never gotten along with.

"But if somebody makes those kind of comments, law enforcement really can't ignore them," she said.

She hopes the renewed attention to her daughter's case prompts someone to remember something that could lead to Amy.

"That's the best thing that could happen," she said.

On the afternoon of Aug. 5, 1989, the teen was on her way home with Midden after a trip to their farm property in Isanti County when they stopped at a gas station in Osseo. Midden used a bathroom and later told authorities he couldn't find his stepdaughter when he came out.

Pagnac said she remembered getting a call from Midden that August evening. He was panicked, she said.

The girl wasn't in the women's restroom, wasn't in a clothing shop or bakery nearby, wasn't at the local school playground.

"He said, 'I should have never gone in the bathroom. I should have never used the bathroom,' " the mother said.

In spring 1989, Amy had suffered a seizure and went through bouts of being extremely angry, her mother said Monday.

At the time of the disappearance, she had been acting normal for at least a month, she said.

Authorities initially thought Amy had run away or had a seizure and wandered off, disoriented. That impression changed the longer she remained missing.

Pagnac said the authorities stopped by her house in 2007 with a search warrant and spent less than a day looking through the home. They also went to the farm in Isanti County, she said, but doesn't know how long they were there.

Law enforcement -- including the FBI, Maple Grove police and Hennepin County sheriff's office -- knocked again Sunday with a sealed search warrant.

Excavation was underway Monday as a heavy rain doused the tents, trailers and police tape that circled the home.

Maple Grove Police Capt. Keith Terlinden said Sunday that, despite Pagnac's claims, the case was never forgotten by local police.

No one has been arrested in connection with Amy's disappearance, and police have declined to say whether her parents are considered suspects.

Non-family abductions of children are rare. Authorities estimate only 5 percent of child abductions are committed by a stranger. A 1999 study by the U.S. Justice Department, which the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children considers the "most definitive" exploration of the topic, puts that number at 2 percent or 3 percent.

Tips have come in from across the country, including one alleged sighting in Minneapolis, but have never been confirmed.

"I have no idea where Amy is. I have only my fears," she said.

"You know it has to be something like that. Also, in the back of your mind, there has been really nothing since 1992. No new leads, no nothing. No even really good possible leads," she said.

But she's been a "pain in the ass" to Maple Grove police, Pagnac said, urging them to keep her daughter's case alive.

That included last year, when Pagnac handed over a drawing her daughter had done of a unicorn. It had been hanging in the family home since 1989.

"She was so happy ... I got her the tape to put it up on her wall," Pagnac said. "I says ... I told them they could ... just don't destroy it. It's one of the few memories I have left."

She said she's been calling for the past year, wondering if the picture has helped at all.

"I'll still be badgering them next week when they leave," she said. "Having this be a media circus, if it gets people to come forward and help find Amy, so be it."

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093. You should follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/jbrewerpipress .
