
CHANDIGARH: A day before Mumbai Indians team of the  IPL was to check in at Taj hotel in Sector 17, three youths in an SUV opened fire at a group of bouncers, injuring one of them and another person, at a parking lot barely 100 metres from the five-star hotel on Monday night.

Rahul Sharma, a resident of Sector 40 and a bouncer, and Pardeep, a resident of Ludhiana, who was studying for IELTS here, were rushed to PGI. Their condition was reported to be stable. While Rahul, 24, took a bullet on his left foot, Pardeep, 25, who was alighting from his car, was hit in the hip.

Police said the three in a Tata Safari shot at the bouncers of Buzz, a nightclub, after they were thrown out of its premises. Sources said the accused were attending a birthday bash of their friend identified as Rattan Lubana. They started to fling slices of cake on others, forcing the bouncers to step in. Around 45 persons were attending the celebrations.

A bouncer, who identified himself as Manny and who was with Rahul, said they had shown the door to the youths as they were drunk and misbehaving with customers around 8.15pm. Half an hour later, when the bouncers were having tea at the parking lot, the three came from Taj side and opened fire, said a policeman.

The youth fled towards the bank square, taking the same road, said a bouncer, standing outside PGI's advanced trauma centre, where the two were admitted.

According to Pardeep, he had nothing to do with the entire episode. "I parked my car and as I stepped out, something pierced my back. It was sharp and painful and before I could realize anything, I fell down," Pardeep told TOI.

The police seized CCTV footage from the nightclub. DSP (crime) Jagbir Singh said the accused were identified and would be arrested.

According to  Taj chief security manager Dinesh Punia, the hotel will beef up security arrangements in view of the arrival of the team.

"Checking at entry and main gate will ensure that no weapons come inside. In the lobby, we will have plain clothes staff keeping an eye. We also have a CCTV unit," said Punia.
