
PALMER -- The son of the owner of the now-closed King Mountain Lodge near Chickaloon has been indicted on charges of attempted murder for an attack on his father in the lodge parking lot.

Hunter Hedrick, 24, was indicted Friday by a Palmer grand jury for his actions during a life-threatening fight with his father, Michael Hedrick, on Jan. 19. Along with attempted murder, Hedrick was also indicted on felony counts of first-, second- and third-degree assault.

Alaska State Troopers in January said two family members fought in the lodge parking lot and someone was stabbed before both fled. One injured man showed up at the Sutton General Store, about 15 miles away from the lodge along the Glenn Highway, and was flown by medevac helicopter to Anchorage, where he was hospitalized in the intensive-care unit.

A second man with what troopers called significant injuries was found in a car near Mile 58 and taken to Mat-Su Regional Medical Center. "Hands" is the only weapon referenced in the grand jury indictment, which doesn't describe the incident.

The prosecutor handling the Hedrick case on Monday declined to release additional information, saying many details have yet to be made public.

Assistant district attorney Trina Sears said Michael Hedrick has not been charged in the case.

Hedrick has a history of violent incidents involving his father, court documents show. He was also arrested in Anchorage in late February after assaulting a hotel security guard, Anchorage police said at the time. Hedrick showed up at the SpringHill Suites Hotel on University Lake Drive and became irate with a clerk after trying to check into a room, police said. A woman earlier that same night told police Hedrick, her boyfriend, had assaulted her.

At the hotel, Hedrick punched a security officer in the face after the man tried to get him to calm down, police said. A second employee who got involved suffered a broken arm.

Last June, Hedrick was arrested on charges of fourth-degree criminal mischief after his father told troopers he damaged a company pickup and a Harley-Davidson motorcycle during a violent spree at the lodge, according to a sworn trooper's affidavit filed with the case at the Palmer courthouse.

In November, Hunter Hedrick was charged with fourth-degree assault after his father told troopers the two were driving together when his son became angry "and punched him in the side of the face several times causing pain, and injuries visible to the Troopers," an affidavit filed with those charging documents says. Michael Hedrick had scratches on his face and a swollen eye, the trooper wrote.

The lodge, which has been for sale for more than a year, was known for down-home character, burgers and pies. Established in 1947, it was said to be the oldest lodge on the Glenn Highway, according to the Online Highways website: "The plank floor bar, dubbed the 'Chickaloon Performing Arts Center', dates back to coal mining days."

All Rights Reserved.
