
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

Several years ago, I took a road trip to Omaha, Neb., to attend the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting.

I was hardly the only one. Every year, more than 30,000 people cram the downtown Qwest Center , now the Century Link Center , where Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger , his loyal lieutenant, would answer questions from shareholders for six hours. And the inquiries didn't even need to relate to business: sports, politics, pop culture - it was all fair game.

Judging by AT&T's planned $48.5 billion acquisition of DirecTV, Todd Combs and Ted Weschler have significantly boosted their chances. Since 2011, the Berkshire portfolio managers bought 34.5 million shares of DirecTV, at prices considerably less than the DirecTV closing price Monday of $84.65 per share and far less than $95 per share in cash and stock AT&T is offering for the satellite company.

In other words, Berkshire made an absolute killing.

"DirecTV has worked out real well for them," said Donald Ingham , a portfolio manager at Tenth Avenue Holdings who closely follows Buffett. "Berkshire is getting a full price for the business from AT&T."

And lest you think a single deal does not make one a successor to Buffett, Combs and Weschler have been consistently kicking butt, besting both the S&P 500 and Buffett's picks last year.

"I must again confess that their investments outperformed mine," Buffett wrote in his latest letter to shareholders. "Charlie Munger says I should add 'by a lot.' If such humiliating comparisons continue, I'll have no choice but to cease talking about them."

"Todd and Ted have also created significant value for you in several matters unrelated to their portfolio activities," he continued. "Their contributions are just beginning: Both men have Berkshire blood in their veins."

The DirecTV deal shows Buffett's confidence in his portfolio managers has not been misplaced. First of all, Buffett himself would never buy DirecTV. Buffet famously avoids technology stocks. Though some make the case DirecTV and Verizon, another Berkshire holding, are more like utilities, shifts in how people consume media makes them more akin to Netflix than PG&E.

Buffett naturally gravitates toward undervalued "mature" industries whose business models he can understand, such as insurance (Geico), railroads (Burlington Northern Santa Fe), soda (Coca-Cola), and newspapers (the Omaha World-Herald).

But Buffett has given Combs and Weschler freedom to manage their $7 billion portfolio as they please. Given the success of DirecTV, expect Berkshire to move further into stocks outside of Buffett's comfort zone.

"DirecTV makes them look a lot better in the eyes of Buffett," said David Kass , a professor of finance at the University of Maryland . "They are proving themselves over and over again."

Not that Berkshire is going to buy Google or Facebook anytime soon. But Combs and Weschler's success suggests that Berkshire can't ignore such a broad universe of stocks forever, especially as Silicon Valley's high-tech firms account for a greater share of the American economy.

"In the years ahead, Berkshire will buy stocks that Buffett would never touch," Kass said. "It's unlikely Buffett would have invested in DirecTV. Buffett is preparing investors for a transition" to a time in the near future when he no longer calls the shots.

Over the years, there has been no shortage of investors, both professional and amateur, who have tried to mimic Buffett's no-frills, just-the-facts-ma'am stock-picking strategy. In his usual self-deprecating style, Buffett encourages the thought that anyone can replicate his success.

"You don't need to be an expert in order to achieve satisfactory investment returns," Buffett wrote. "But if you aren't, you must recognize your limitations and follow a course certain to work reasonably well. Keep things simple and don't swing for the fences. When promised quick profits, respond with a quick 'no.' "

That sounds good in theory. But frankly, there is only one Buffett, and so his strategies and success will likely follow him when he calls it quits.
