
AstraZeneca rejected Pfizer's fourth offer, all but ending the latter's takeover bid of the U.K. drug maker.

LONDON, May 19 (UPI) -- AstraZeneca rejected another offer from Pfizer, saying the price was too low and ending all chances of creating the world's biggest drug maker.

The $117 billion takeover offer was Pfizer's final offer and was rejected by the U.K. drug maker, as it failed to take into account experimental drugs in its pipeline and also the risks it presented to shareholders. The deal valued AstraZeneca at $92 per share, but the company said something closer to $98 per share would represent the true value of the company.

"From our first meeting in January to our latest discussion yesterday, and in the numerous phone calls in between, Pfizer has failed to make a compelling strategic, business or value case. The Board is firm in its conviction as to the appropriate terms to recommend to shareholders," said AstraZeneca Chairman Leif Johansson .

He added that the offer was a minor improvement upon Pfizer's third offer, but still continued to "fall short of the Board's view of value and has been rejected."

The deal, which looks like it is dead, had split AstraZeneca shareholders, with many suggesting that the board was making a "gross miscalculation" in rejecting the offer. They also felt that the company should have engaged in constructive talks with Pfizer to reach an acceptable figure.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
