
WASHINGTON — Credit Suisse Group AG CS, +1.21%  became the first financial institution in more than a decade to plead guilty to a crime Monday when the Swiss bank admitted it conspired to aid tax evasion and agreed to pay $2.6 billion to settle a long-running probe by the U.S. Justice Department.

Attorney General Eric Holder, in announcing the charges, said the bank engaged in an “extensive and wide-ranging” scheme to help Americans hide assets.

The financial terms of the settlement include a $100 million payment to the Federal Reserve, more than $715 million to the New York Department of Financial Services, and about $1.7 billion to the Justice Department, according to people familiar with the settlement.

Chinese hackers shamed by the U.S.

Alleged cyberspies from the Chinese military have "wanted" posters out for their arrest. Who are they accused of hacking? Will they face trial in the U.S.? WSJ¹s Jason Bellini has #TheShortAnswer.

The settlement marks the Justice Department’s biggest victory in its crackdown on tax evasion since Credit Suisse’s crosstown rival UBS AG UBS, +0.96%   agreed to pay $780 million as part of a deferred prosecution agreement in 2009. As part of that deal, UBS acknowledged aiding U.S. tax evasion but did not plead guilty.

UBS was charged with helping Americans hide about $20 billion in assets from tax authorities. However, the period between actions against Switzerland’s two biggest banks has seen an escalation in the U.S. crackdown. In addition, UBS’s penalty came amid the financial crisis, which had deeply affected the Zurich-based bank’s stability.

Prosecutors took steps to limit the potential ripple effects from a guilty plea by winning assurances from state and federal regulators not to take punitive measures that would cripple the bank, such as stripping Credit Suisse of its ability to operate in the U.S. The bank’s chief executive and chairman are not expected to lose their jobs over the case, despite calls by some in Switzerland for them to leave the firm.

In extracting a guilty plea prosecutors are taking somewhat of a gamble that the criminal charge won’t harm the bank in unanticipated ways. Prosecutors have won admissions of guilt before, sometimes with catastrophic outcomes. Junk-bond powerhouse Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. ultimately collapsed after pleading guilty to six counts of fraud in 1989 and accounting giant Arthur Andersen was felled by a criminal indictment.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
