
Convention covers European countries, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Russia, although not the United States, Japan or China.

Cars could be driving themselves down European streets far sooner than expected, thanks to a change in a global treaty backed by European countries.

A little-noticed amendment to the United Nations Convention on Road Traffic agreed last month would let drivers take their hands off the wheel of self-driving cars.

It was pushed by Germany, Italy and France, whose high-end carmakers believe they are ready to zoom past American tech pioneers and bring the first 'autonomous vehicles' to market.

The amendment agreed last month by the U.N. Working Party on Road Traffic Safety would allow a car to drive itself, as long as the system 'can be overridden or switched off by the driver'.

A driver must be present and able to take the wheel at any time.

Provided the amendment clears all bureaucratic hurdles, all 72 countries that are party to the convention would have to work the new rules into their laws.

The convention covers European countries, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Russia, although not the United States, Japan or China.

'Today I am only allowed to take my hands off the wheel to a limited extent,' said Thomas Weber, head of Group research at Daimler and head of development at Mercedes-Benz.

For years, so-called 'autonomous vehicles' have been a futuristic dream pioneered by silicon valley companies like Google.

But as the technology becomes more affordable, Europe's luxury automakers say they are well placed to take advantage of it because of their deeper experience in engineering, manufacturing, marketing and sales.

There is no point in waiting while California upstarts catch up, they say.

The U.S. state of Nevada passed a law in June 2011 to allow test drives of autonomous vehicles there. Google tested one in 2012.

In August 2013, Mercedes-Benz responded to the Google push by developing an S-class limousine which drove between Mannheim and Pforzheim without any driver input.

The 103 kilometer stretch is known as the Bertha Benz route, named after the driver of the first ever motorcar more than 125 years ago.

But moving from test drives to marketable products was held back by Article 8 of the 1968 Convention on Road Traffic, which stipulates: 'Every driver shall at all times be able to control his vehicle or to guide his animals.'

The amendment agreed last month by the U.N. Working Party on Road Traffic Safety would allow a car to drive itself, as long as the system 'can be overridden or switched off by the driver'.

A driver must be present and able to take the wheel at any time.

Provided the amendment clears all bureaucratic hurdles, all 72 countries that are party to the convention would have to work the new rules into their laws.

The convention covers European countries, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Russia, although not the United States, Japan or China.

What Google's car sees: An interior view of a Google self-driving car showing the video and the data the car uses to 'see' the road.

The amendment was submitted by the governments of Germany, Italy, France, Germany, Belgium and Austria, according to the April 17 U.N. document - showing just how important the new technology is for Europe.

Germany's premium carmakers in particular have business models that rely on leading the market in vehicles with the most sophisticated features available.

They can't afford to fall behind.

Audi, Mercedes-Benz, BMW as well as auto suppliers Bosch and Continental are working on technologies for autonomous or semi-autonomous cars.

Mercedes has developed technology which can scan the road ahead and behind with cameras and radar, and prompt a vehicle to pull out and overtake a large truck without a driver having to touch the steering wheel.

It now wants to introduce more automated driving features into its cars, such as automated parking, automatic stop-and-go driving in traffic and motorway driving functions.

Eventually, it hopes to have cars with elaborate self-driving software that can be easily updated - like an iPhone - to take advantage of new technical capabilities or changes in the law.

'We have developed a car that can drive autonomously. Now the legal framework needs to follow suit,' a Daimler spokeswoman said.

It would be hard to mistake the gold Lexus RX 450h cars that Google has converted into self-driving prototypes for normal cars, primarily because of the roof-mounted laser sensor that revolves 10 times a second, gathering a 360-degree view of the car's surroundings.

Other drivers who spot the self-driving car often swerve in front of it and tap on their brakes, hoping to gauge the Google car's reaction, according to the two Google staffers in the car's front seats.

Another favorite involves car drivers waving their hands in the air, in an attempt to get the Google driver-seat staff member to take his or her own hands off the wheel and prove the car is really steering itself.

'We just laugh at them,' said one of the Google staff members in the car.

From the car's backseat, the ride feels little different from sitting in a taxi.

The car's speed, the distance it maintains from the vehicle in front and its handling, for the most part, feel completely ordinary.

Changing lanes occasionally feels sharper than typical, and the car slowed down at a green light at one point until its sensors were able to 'read' a traffic light that was apparently mounted at an odd angle.

The Google staff member in the driver's seat never took control of the car, other than the initial passage through a speed bump-laden parking lot, and once again on arrival.

Last week a fleet of Google's robot cars ferried more than two dozen reporters around Mountain View, California, on Tuesday, in 30-minute ride-alongs that showcased their ability to automatically and safely navigate around city streets packed with cyclists, pedestrians and traffic signs.

The demonstrations, along with a morning of press briefings by Google managers developing the technology, marked the company's most concerted effort to date to provide an up-close look at the cars conceived five years ago in its secretive Google X division.

The public needs to understand that a self-driving car is 'not something that you need to fear but something you need to embrace,' said Ron Medford, a former National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration official who is now director of safety for Google's self-driving car project.

Sensors including radar and lasers create 3D maps of a self-driving car's surroundings in real-time, while Google's software sorts objects into four categories.

These include moving vehicles, pedestrians, cyclists and static objects such as signs, curbs and parked cars.

Initially, the car’s capabilities were fairly crude. A group of pedestrians on a street corner registered as a single person.

Now, the technology can distinguish individuals, according to Google spokeswoman Courtney Hohne.

To deal with cyclists, engineers initially programmed the software to look for hand gestures that indicate an upcoming turn.

Then they realised that most cyclists don't use standard gestures - and still others weave down a road the wrong way.

Engineers have taught the software to predict the behaviour of cyclists based on thousands of encounters during the approximately 10,000 miles (16,000 km) the cars have driven autonomously on city streets, Hohne said.

The software projects a cyclist's likely movements and plots the car's path accordingly - then reacts if something unexpected happens.

‘A mile of city driving is much more complex than a mile of freeway driving, with hundreds of different objects moving according to different rules of the road in a small area,’ Urmson wrote.

Before recent breakthroughs, Google had considered mapping all the world's stop signs.

Now the technology can read stop signs, including those held in the hands of school crossing guards, Hohne added.

Google will not say whether it will build its own cars or license the technology to automakers, nor will it provide a firm date for when the cars will be available.

Co-founder Brin has said the technology could be available by 2017.

Google's cars have never 'caused' an accident in self-driving mode, although they have been involved in a few fender benders, such as an incident in which a Google car stopped at a red light got rear-ended, said Chris Urmson, the head of Google's self-driving car project.

Unlike human drivers, self-driving cars never get drowsy behind the wheel, and they can react to unforeseen situations much more quickly, he said.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
