
The special UN defensive military force moved into Mogadishu International Airport on Sunday following a recommendation by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to the Security Council.

The UN Guard Unit (UNGU) is made up 410 troops provided by the Uganda People’s Defence Force (UPDF) and reports to Nicholas Kay, UN Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM) chief and also the Secretary-General’s special representative for the troubled east African country.

It has been given the status of a “static force” and will be part of the overall UN security concept for Somalia. This will see UNGU provide inner ring static protection for UNSOM and the UN Support Office for the AU Mission in Somalia (UNSOA), both located inside the airport.

“The deployment of UNGU is an important step as we continue to expand operations in support of the Somali people,” Kay said, thanking the government and people of Somalia and the AU Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) for support and “the protection they provide to the UN”.

Last August a joint AU/UN assessment mission was launched in Somalia as a result of the deteriorating security situation exacerbated by an attack on the UN compound in Mogadishu which saw a UN staff member, three personnel members of a UN contracted company and four non-UN security guards killed.

Following the assessment Ban expressed concerns that political progress made in Somalia as well as military gains achieved against Al-Shabaab “are in serious danger of being reversed”.

The international company will join its exclusive land-based security systems representative in SA, at Africa, Aerospace and Defence 2014.

Ninety-eight percent of all 6 000 parts of the AHRLAC aircraft were  designed and produced locally by the engineering team, says Paramount  Group.

Developed by PHOTONIS, the tube is a multi-mission night vision tool, and will be unveiled at Africa Aerospace and Defence in September.

A revitalised viewpoint on Africa, and its challenges and opportunities  for investors, should take centre stage at US-Africa Summit 2014, says  Paramount Group.

The company has provided the Indonesian Air Force with the latest aircraft identification and air surveillance equipment.

The company's financial results show revenue growth of 17%, improved  profit and the largest multi-year order book in its history.
