
Nashville, TN  ( RestaurantNews.com )  Shoney’s®, America’s Dinner Table since 1947, will honor America’s fallen military members this Memorial Day (Monday, May 26, 2014) by serving a free All-American Burger™ to all veterans and active duty military members.

“It’s our way of remembering, honoring and saying ‘Thank You!’ to the heroes who fought for our freedom while treating our veterans and troops to a great American burger on Memorial Day,” said David Davoudpour, Chairman and CEO of Shoney’s.

According to Davoudpour, service members will be treated to Shoney’s Signature favorite All-American Burger (w/cheese if requested), a freshly prepared, hand-pattied, grain-fed, 100% ground beef, cooked to order burger, served on a toasted corn-dusted bun with lettuce, tomatoes, red onions, pickles and mayonnaise. Fries are on the house as well.

“Our All-American Burger with fries has been a guest favorite for many years,” said Davoudpour.

Since acquiring the great American eatery in 2006, Shoney’s top gun has been on a spirited mission to revitalize and reinvigorate Shoney’s family-friendly, southern style restaurant chain, which was one of the first family casual dining concepts in the United States. Shoney’s served as a popular post-WWII family destination when it began serving guests 67 years ago.

Shoney’s offer of a free All-American Burger to veterans and active duty military service members is available on Monday, May 26, 2014 at all Shoney’s restaurants while supplies last. There is a limit of one burger per military service member. The offer is not valid in conjunction with any other offers. Shoney’s military guests will need to provide proof of military service. Offer is valid for dine-in only. Drink, tax and gratuity are not included.

Shoney’s is a Nashville-based company with approximately 170 restaurants in 16 states. Since its humble beginnings in 1947 as a Charleston, West Virginia drive-in restaurant, guests have enjoyed Shoney’s family-friendly, casual dining experience. Visit www.shoneys.com for more information on restaurant hours, locations and special offers. You can also follow Shoney’s on Facebook , Twitter @Shoney’s and YouTube .
