
A group of young men play in a park near the financial district in Ho  Chi Minh City. Anti-Chinese demonstrations have resulted in thousands of  protesters torching down factories not only of Chinese, but also  Singaporean, Hong Kong and Taiwanese firms in Vietnam.

Foreign investors in certain Southeast Asian countries are beginning to raise questions whether the growing number of conflicts in the region will have a mid-term negative effect on their engagement.

Apart from the continued political unrest in Thailand, it is now Vietnam where violent anti-Chinese demonstrations resulted in thousands of protesters torching down factories not only of Chinese, but also Singaporean, Hong Kong and Taiwanese firms.

Other conflicts such as repeated violent garment worker strikes in Cambodia and nationalist sentiments in Myanmar are adding to the problem.

Economists on the sidelines of the 24th Asean Summit held in Myanmar’s capital Naypyitaw earlier this month said the growing political instability in the region could complicate or even threaten the creation of a single market in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the Asean Economic Community (AEC), slated to be launched by the end of 2015. This would not only put the brakes on further economic development in a region with a 600mn population, but also prolong the hurdles foreign investors presently have to overcome in inter-Asean trade.

In Vietnam’s case, some Hong Kong manufacturers said they fear that emotions will spread to neighbouring countries such as Cambodia and Thailand, both popular production and manufacturing bases. This is the least the former two countries would need in the moment.

Thailand, for example, could significantly lose competitiveness it the political conflict remains unresolved, according to Aat Pisanwanich, director of the Centre of International Trade Studies at the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce. He indicated that Thailand’s export losses to other Asean countries could cumulate to $7.7bn this year, adding that 30 to 40% of the total of two million small and medium enterprises in the country could collapse as their markets dwindle. Large foreign investors in Thailand’s once thriving car industry, such as Honda and Toyota, have said they are already looking elsewhere to build new factories. Thailand also appears heading towards a recession and has come under fire from credit rating agencies to resolve its internal dispute, so far to no avail.

In a latest development, state enterprise unions on May 18 have called for a nationwide strike of state workers which could affect transportation and airports, utility supply, as well as industrial estate management, nothing of which does strengthen investors’ confidence.

Cambodia’s problem is more a social conflict, in which underpaid garment workers demanding what they see as fair salaries continuously clash with police forces, which, in turn, are orchestrated by a fairly corrupt government. Western textile chains were already forced to rethink their supply chain practices, and boycott calls against brands such as H&M, Gap or Nike increased alarmingly.

In Myanmar, rising nationalism and religious sentiments are beginning to become a problem. In particular, several movements of radical Buddhist monks have called to boycott all Muslim-related businesses, which, unfortunately, also include Qatar’s telecom company Ooredoo.

The movement of Ma-Ba-Tha (Organisation for Protection of Race and Religion), led by senior monks, have just recently in a xenophobic appeal on the Internet called not to use Ooredoo’s mobile phone network after launch in July this year.

I agree to receive newsletters from Gulf Times.
