
Signs and every possible screen in Terminal 5 are being used to promote this new smartphone.

The first Samsung Galaxy S phone was released in June of 2010, and since then the company has sold upwards of 160 million units. With last month’s release of the Galaxy S5 , Samsung is pushing harder than ever to surpass the iPhone, the device that has remained the top selling phone of any kind in many countries, including the United States and Japan, since it’s initial release in June 2007. Despite the Galaxy S series’ history of more capabilities than the iPhone, it still hasn’t received the wide-spread popularity one might expect, so Samsung is determinded to increase the Galaxy 5S’s visibility, so much so that they have taken over an enitire terminal in London’s famed Heathrow airport.

Beginning today, and lasting for the next two weeks, Terminal 5 in Heathrow Airport has been renamed Terminal Galaxy S5. All signage and every screen in the terminal will showcase the new smartphone, in addition to wayfinding boards, and even the website. In addition to all that, the airport will have Galaxy S5 phones available for customers to try out at the Dixons Travel store located in the terminal.

According to a Heathrow press release, Terminal 5 is the busiest terminal in the world, and this is the first time they have allowed a brand to take it over, which shows the airport has a lot of faith in Samsung. The campaign was created in collaboration with JCDecaux Airport , the market leader in airport advertising. Samsung is always looking for ways to maximize their brand’s impact, says Russell Taylor, VP of Corporate Marketing at Samsung. This partnership has allowed them to push boundaries like no other company has before.

Galaxy S5 ads will be displayed on every single one of the terminal’s 172 digital panels, and signs will be placed in the gate rooms and baggage reclaiming area, as well as in the airport lounges.

With thousands of people passing through Terminal 5 each day, in addition to the numerous online visitors, Samsung ‘s ad campaign is sure to have an impact. What’s more, it has opened Heathrow to the possibility of allowing other brands to take over this terminal in the future.
