
Malaysia's defence minister has defended his military's failure to scramble a fighter jet to follow a Malaysian airliner when it veered off course and vanished two months ago, saying it was not seen as a hostile object.

In response to criticism that fighter jets should have been scrambled to investigate the then-unidentified flight through Malaysian air space, defence minister Hishammuddin Hussein told Australian Broadcasting's Four Corners programme today that the plane was deemed commercial and not hostile.

"If you're not going to shoot it down, what's the point of sending it (a fighter) up?" Mr Hishammuddin asked.

He said had the Boeing 777 been shot down with 239 passengers and crew on board, "I'd be in a worse position, probably".

Delays in confirming the flight's change of direction led to several days of wasted searching for wreckage in the South China Sea along the airliner's original course, before an analysis of satellite data identified the southern Indian Ocean as a more likely crash site.

Mr Hishammudin previously defended the military's inaction in pursuing the plane for identification after a preliminary report on its disappearance was released early this month.

On that occasion, he said he was informed of the military radar detection two hours later and relayed it to Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak, who immediately ordered a search in the Strait of Malacca.

Also on Four Corners, Asuad Khan, the brother-in-law of missing pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, rejected speculation that his relative was the perpetrator of a mass murder-suicide.

Mr Asuad said media reports that his sister Faizah and her children had left the pilot hours before the flight were false.

Separately, officials said a Chinese navy survey ship will start mapping the seabed off the west Australian coast this week as part of a new phase of the search.

Chinese, Australian and Malaysian authorities met at the west coast port city of Fremantle over the weekend and agreed that the Chinese ship Zhu Kezhen will conduct a bathymetric survey of the Indian Ocean floor as directed by Australian air crash investigators, Australia's Joint Agency Co-ordination Centre said in a statement.

The Canberra-based centre said the ship is scheduled to sail for the survey area on Wednesday, weather permitting.
