
Reprinted from REPORT ON PATIENT PRIVACY , the industry's #1 source of timely news and business strategies for safeguarding patient privacy and data security.

Recent alerts, warnings, surveys and studies all underscore the vulnerability of the health care industry to data security breaches. And these warnings are coming from a range of parties — IT experts, the government and the vendors themselves.

For health care providers and facilities that rely on Microsoft products, two important alerts appeared recently. First, Microsoft reported that as of April 8, it would no longer provide support for its Windows XP operating system. While this does not necessarily mean that providers using Windows XP are out of HIPAA compliance, it does have serious implications going forward. Without any patches to repair glitches in a Microsoft product, if one were to appear, Windows XP users would be vulnerable.

In short, Windows XP users should do what all HIPAA covered entities and business associates are expected to do when there is a significant change in operations or the environment that presents new threats or vulnerabilities to ePHI: they should update their HIPAA risk assessments and remediate identified gaps in security. The HHS Office for Civil Rights recently released a risk assessment tool that providers can use for this purpose (see next story).

Figure out the scope of the problem, and look carefully at your organization’s IT infrastructure and architecture.

Upgrade each machine and make sure that any software and/or lab equipment is likewise updated.

At a minimum, install the final Windows XP update NOW so that your machines start their unsupported lives protected from the known vulnerabilities.

The notice, which was distributed to health care providers, asks them to report any suspicious or criminal activity to the FBI.

© 2014 by Atlantic Information Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

It's quick and easy to sign up for FREE access to AISHealth.com!

Copyright © 2014 Atlantic Information Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
