
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to www.wiscnews.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

U.S. Army Capt. Steven Northrop, battle captain for Kosovo Force's Multinational Battle Group-East and a native of Gulfport, Miss., holds a card May 2 that was sent from Reedsburg Area High School teacher Jolee Mockler's class several years ago. Northrop found the card pinned to a board while he was cleaning an office after arriving at Camp Bondsteel, and kept it because it reminded him of his family.

CAMP BONDSTEEL, Kosovo – When deployed, the simplest of things can make a service member feel at home and, for one soldier, a two-year-old card was all he needed.

U.S. Army Capt. Steven Northrop, battle captain for Kosovo Force’s Multinational Battle Group-East, found a “butterfly” card pinned to a board while he was cleaning an office after arriving at Camp Bondsteel last February.

He kept it from being thrown away because it reminded him of home.

Opening the card, Northrop found the card was sent from a student at Reedsburg Area High School in Reedsburg, saying thank you to service members for the sacrifices they make.

Northrop wanted to return the favor.

Soon thereafter, he received a response from Jolee Mockler, an art teacher at the Reedsburg school, who has sent cards and care packages to deployed troops since 2006.

“It’s my mission to give our students the opportunity to tell the troops ‘thank you’ and I’ve never had a student stay no to making cards,” Mockler said.

However, her service doesn’t end there, as she also coordinates with local schools in the district to make cards and collect goods for the troops.

Mockler said her drive to keep doing what she does comes from the responses she gets back from service members around the world.

“We receive so much love and appreciation for the simple act of sending cookies and making cards,” Mockler said.

The passion she feels for honoring the troops has become contagious among the students and school staff, and Mockler said she believes it is important to keep supporting service members throughout the world.

Both Northrop and Mockler have kept in touch since the initial thank you note was discovered, and Mockler has sent additional letters and boxes to soldiers in the current Kosovo Force rotation. With each deployed unit, she receives new photos and her continued support is there for all to see as her wall of heroes gets bigger and bigger.

Copyright 2014 Wiscnews.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Yes.

No, and I don't plan to.

Local businesses offer you great deals on goods and services.

Baraboo and Sauk County headlines delivered to your email inbox daily.

Baraboo and Sauk County sports headlines delivered to your email inbox daily.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
