
Rockwell Automation, the world’s largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, announced it will be holding its fourth Jakarta-based Rockwell Automation on the Move (RAOTM) event on 20 May at The Ritz-Carlton, Jakarta, Mega Kuningan.

As the industry’s premier one-day event focused on innovative smart, safe and sustainable solutions, Rockwell Automation’s RAOTM events offer a plethora of educational and networking opportunities that demonstrate cutting-edge process and discrete control technologies. In conjunction with Rockwell Automation’s 111 years of Allen-Bradley brand equity, this year’s event will enable customers to see how to improve business productivity and profitability, optimise plants and supply-chain management, and make operations cleaner, safer, securer and more energy efficient.

Delegates from across Indonesia will have the opportunity to view state-of-the-art power, control, process and sustainable-production solutions at the extensive exhibits, staffed by Rockwell Automation and their partners’ experts. They can also participate in a variety of technical sessions featuring presentations on key industry issues and developments, experience Rockwell Automation products and technologies at hands-on labs, as well as network with industry, application and technology experts.

Rockwell Automation and its best-in-class suppliers in its PartnerNetwork™ programme will collaborate to discuss the latest industry trends, consult on standards and requirements, provide interactive demonstrations of leading automation technology, and present solutions for daily challenges in manufacturing automation and machine performance. These system integrators, strategic alliance partners, Encompass-referenced products and distributors will showcase products and services designed to work with Rockwell Automation to ensure that customers receive the best value for their automation investment. Together, they have extensive experience in a wide range of industry sectors including Oil and Gas, Consumer Packaged Goods, Mining and Cement, Automotive and Tyres.

“Our RAOTM events uniquely bring Rockwell Automation staff, partners and customers together in one venue, so the leaders in our ecosystem witness how closely we work together overcoming vital industrial automation challenges, by leveraging technology and industry insights to help our customers grow and prosper,” said Bob Buttermore, Regional Director, Southeast Asia, Rockwell Automation.

Newswire Today - PRZOOM / PRTODAY disclaims any content contained in this article. If you need/wish to contact the company who published the current release, you will need to contact them - NOT us. Issuers of articles are solely responsible for the accuracy of their content. Our complete disclaimer appears here .

IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Issuance, publication or distribution of this press release in certain jurisdictions could be subject to restrictions. The recipient of this press release is responsible for using this press release and the information herein in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations in the particular jurisdiction. This press release does not constitute an offer or an offering to acquire or subscribe for any Rockwell Automation, Inc. securities in any jurisdiction including any other companies listed or named in this release.
