
May 19, 2014, 11:05 AM — Gmail is one of Google's most popular products and now it has hit a new milestone on the Android platform. According to Google Vice President Sundar Pichai on Google+ , Gmail passed one billion downloads on May 15.

However, the Inquirer is cautioning folks not to get too excited about this.

This doesn't necessarily mean that Gmail for Android has one billion users, however. First off, the ticker on Gmail's Google Play page is a tally of total number of installs rather than the total number of devices that have the app installed.

Also, some reports note that the one billion figure includes inactive and duplicate accounts, and it's also worth noting that a Gmail app comes preloaded on most Android devices.

ZDNet has a review of the Linux Mint 17 release candidate that became available last week, and their assessment seems quite positive.

The Release Candidate for Linux Mint 17 (Qiana) was released a few days ago.  A lot of people have been looking forward to this release, and I am one of them. So I have downloaded both the Cinnamon and MATE versions, and installed them on several of my laptops and netbooks. As is pretty much always the case with Mint, everything went very smoothly, and it all appears to work very well.

The Linux subreddit on Reddit recently did a survey about Linux distributions and the results are in.

Debian has displaced Linux Mint for position #3.

elementary OS has quickly gained a following, putting it into position 6.

Xubuntu has dropped to position 7, after elementary OS.

Crunchbang has risen above Kubuntu and Gentoo for position 8.

Kubuntu has dropped off of the top 10, taking position 11.

By an overwhelming margin, Unity remains the most hated Linux GUI among /r/Linux users. In fact, this year’s margin is much larger than previous years'! It seems not only does hate for Unity among /r/Linux remain strong, it is in fact growing over time.

The choice of Unity as the most hated desktop environment really doesn't surprise me, nor does GNOME 3's runner up position on that illustrious list.

What's your take on all this? Tell me in the comments below.

The opinions expressed by the author do not necessarily reflect the views of ITworld.

ITworld Answers helps you solve problems and share expertise. Ask a question or take a crack at answering the new questions below.
