
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Options For Income is a contributor page created by the editors of Stock Options Channel, a stock options research Website. Our site includes a number of features that allow investors to dig deeper into interesting stock options opportunities, including our proprietary YieldBoost ranking system. Some of these actionable ideas will appear on this Forbes contributor page each day.   The site and our articles focus on selling option contracts and collecting premium income in the hope that they won’t be exercised and thus will expire worthless. It’s an income generating strategy currently employed by many of the most sophisticated money managers and hedge funds. Now StocksOptionsChannel.com and Forbes offer this information in an easy to use and understand format.

Consistently, one of the more popular stocks people enter into their stock options watchlist at Stock Options Channel is Microsoft Microsoft Corporation ( NASD: MSFT ). So this week we highlight one interesting put contract, and one interesting call contract, from the September expiration for MSFT.

The put contract our YieldBoost algorithm identified as particularly interesting, is at the $36 strike, which has a bid at the time of this writing of 61 cents. Collecting that bid as the premium represents a 1.7% return against the $36 commitment, or a 5% annualized rate of return (at Stock Options Channel we call this the YieldBoost).

Selling a put does not give an investor access to MSFT’s upside potential the way owning shares would, because the put seller only ends up owning shares in the scenario where the contract is exercised. So unless Microsoft Corporation sees its shares fall 9.2% and the contract is exercised (resulting in a cost basis of $35.39 per share before broker commissions, subtracting the 61 cents from $36), the only upside to the put seller is from collecting that premium for the 5% annualized rate of return.

Worth considering, is that the annualized 5% figure actually exceeds the 2.8% annualized dividend paid by Microsoft Corporation by 2.2%, based on the current share price of $39.63. And yet, if an investor was to buy the stock at the going market price in order to collect the dividend, there is greater downside because the stock would have to lose 9.18% to reach the $36 strike price.

Always important when discussing dividends is the fact that, in general, dividend amounts are not always predictable and tend to follow the ups and downs of profitability at each company. In the case of Microsoft Corporation, looking at the dividend history chart for MSFT below can help in judging whether the most recent dividend is likely to continue, and in turn whether it is a reasonable expectation to expect a 2.8% annualized dividend yield.

Turning to the other side of the option chain, we highlight one call contract of particular interest for the September expiration, for shareholders of Microsoft Corporation ( NASD: MSFT ) looking to boost their income beyond the stock’s 2.8% annualized dividend yield. Selling the covered call at the $42 strike and collecting the premium based on the 75 cents bid, annualizes to an additional 5.6% rate of return against the current stock price (this is what we at Stock Options Channel refer to as the YieldBoost), for a total of 8.4% annualized rate in the scenario where the stock is not called away. Any upside above $42 would be lost if the stock rises there and is called away, but MSFT shares would have to climb 6% from current levels for that to occur, meaning that in the scenario where the stock is called, the shareholder has earned a 7.8% return from this trading level, in addition to any dividends collected before the stock was called.

The chart above, and the stock’s historical volatility, can be a helpful guide in combination with fundamental analysis to judge whether selling the September put or call options highlighted in this article deliver a rate of return that represents good reward for the risks. We calculate the trailing twelve month volatility for Microsoft Corporation (considering the last 251 trading day MSFT historical stock prices using closing values, as well as today’s price of $39.63) to be 25%.

In mid-afternoon trading on Monday, the put volume among S&P 500 components was 707,859 contracts, with call volume at 1.27M, for a put:call ratio of 0.56 so far for the day. Compared to the long-term median put:call ratio of .65, that represents high call volume relative to puts; in other words, buyers are showing a preference for calls in options trading so far today.
