
German lender Deutsche Bank AG said Monday it would raise €8 billion  ($10.96 billion) in cash from investors, including Qatar's royal family, as it  faces a European Central Bank stress test later this year.

Deutsche said it sold €1.75 billion worth of new shares to Paramount  Services Holdings Ltd., the Qatar family's investment vehicle, at €29.20  apiece, a 5.2% discount to the shares' Friday close. That stock issue equates  to about 6% of the Frankfurt institution.

The German bank will raise the remaining €6.3 billion in a June sale to  investors at an as-yet unknown price and led by an unnamed banking consortium.

European banks are girding for a fresh round of stress tests this summer  to gauge their resistance to financial crisis. The tests will be conducted by  the European Central Bank as it prepares to become the Continent's chief  banking supervisor in November and will measure banks against a targeted common  Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, falling to 5.5% in adverse situations.

Although the regulator has said it will look at Tier 1 capital, watchdogs  are also increasingly considering other factors, such as leverage ratios,  because they fear banks have found ways to hide risk while cresting the Tier 1  requirement.

Deutsche said the sale will boost its Tier 1 ratio to 11.8% from 9.5% and  also help it hire key new personnel in the U.S., in banking for international  corporations and in wealth management, where it wants to grow 15% in the next  three years.

Analysts said the share sale, its second-largest, wouldn't be enough.

"They won't be able to get up to a leverage ratio of 4% until they  raise €13 billion. Even then they would only be at the lower end of this key  ratio among global investment banks. Their new business goals also sound a bit  too lofty," wrote Société Générale SA analyst Andrew Lim in a note. He has  a sell rating on the stock.

Deutsche is also one of a handful of banks being probed for rigging  foreign exchange rates. The company said during a call with analysts that the  fundraising had little to do with potential legal costs.

"The package of measures we are announcing today represents a  decisive response to both the challenges and the opportunities in a changing  macro-economic, competitive and regulatory environment. These measures enable  Deutsche Bank to position itself for long-term, sustainable success in a time  of historic change in the global banking industry," Deutsche co-CEOs  Jürgen Fitschen and Anshu Jain said in a statement.

Deutsche said it managed the sale of its shares to Qatar itself.

The shares slipped 1.5%, or €0.47, to €30.340 in early Frankfurt trading.

Cerberus Capital Management LP-backed FirstKey Holdings said Jeffrey Mayer joined the firm as executive chairman of the board.  For other updates launch today's Movers & shakers slideshow .
