
US pharma giant Pfizer's final sweetened takeover offer of £69.3bn is rejected by its British rival AstraZeneca.

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.

Just nine hours after Pfizer raised its offer from £53.50 a share on Friday, to £55 on Sunday, AstraZenca rejected the offer as the markets opened at 7am.

The US company had said it would not enter into a hostile takeover,  and would walk away if the latest bid was not accepted. But it has not  yet responded to AstraZeneca's rejection of the offer.

The latest bid, which comes after lengthy talks over the weekend, was  still viewed as falling short of properly valuing AstraZeneca. Leif Johansson, chairman of AstraZeneca said: "We have rejected Pfizer's final proposal because it is inadequate and  would present significant risks for shareholders, while also having  serious consequences for the company, our employees and the  life-sciences sector in the UK, Sweden and the US."

Mr Johansson said he had made clear in  discussions with Pfizer that  his board could only recommend a bid that  was at least 10 per cent  above the offer of £53.50 made by Pfizer, or £58.85. It remains to be seen whether AstraZeneca's shareholders will try to convince the company to reopen negotiations with Pfizer.

Pfizer wants to create the world's largest drugs company, with a  headquarters in New York but a tax base in Britain, where corporate tax  rates are lower than in the United States. However the plans have been  met with entrenched opposition from AstraZeneca, as well as many  politicians and scientists who fear cuts to jobs and research.

Bid 'driven by corporate financial  benefits'

Pfizer's proposed takeover would be the largest ever foreign  acquisition of a British firm and is opposed by many scientists and  politicians who fear it will undermine Britain's science base.

The US. group said its new offer was final and could not be  increased. It said it would not make a hostile offer directly to  AstraZeneca shareholders and would only proceed with an offer with the  recommendation of the AstraZeneca board.

In a statement on Monday, Mr Johansson added: "Pfizer's  approach throughout its pursuit of AstraZeneca  appears to have been  fundamentally driven by the corporate financial  benefits to its  shareholders of cost savings and tax minimisation. From  our first  meeting in January to our latest discussion yesterday, and in  the  numerous phone calls in between, Pfizer has failed to make a  compelling  strategic, business or value case."

Video: The planned takeover would be the biggest ever by a foreign  firm. But would it boost Britain's economy - or cost jobs? City AM  editor Allister Heath and Labour MP Katy Clark debate the question.

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.
