
Don Draper and Peggy Olson share a tender dance as Frank Sinatra’s My Way plays in the background in the latest episode of Mad Men.

Don gently kisses her on the head after the pair split a bottle of whiskey as they try to hammer out a strategy for their Burger Chef presentation.

Peggy accepts his invitation to dance to the song in her office as they have a heart to heart about where their lives are going in the episode, titled The Strategy.

The ad they are working on shows a happy family going to get dinner at the fast food chain.

‘Did you ever do that with your family?’ Peggy asks.

‘I don’t remember,’ Don says ruefully.

‘What the hell do I know about being a mom?’ Peggy wonders as she looks at the work.

‘Sh*t, when?’ he says. ‘I kept it as secret as I could. And now I’m one of those women lying about her age. I hate them,’ she says.

‘I worry about a lot of things. But I don’t worry about you,’ he tells her.

’That I never did anything and that I don’t have anyone,’ he tells her.

‘I looked in the window of so many station wagons,’ she said after she went on a research trip around the States for the campaign, fighting back tears.

‘You’re doing great,’ he tells her.

‘Come on,’ he says, taking her hand.

Earlier Peggy was told to let Don - now her junior - give the presentation she created by Pete Campbell, who is visiting the New York office of SCDP from Los Angeles.

‘Don will give authority, you will give emotion,’ he told her.

‘I have authority and Don has emotion,’ she said.

‘I prefer you as an expert witness. You will introduce him,’ Pete said.

‘You know that she’s every bit as good as any woman in this business,’ Pete said patronizingly after Peggy agreed to the plan.

Later Peggy goes to see Don.

‘I’ve given it careful thought and I think you should give the presentation to Burger Chef,’ she told him.

He was dumbfounded, saying she did a ‘great job’.

But when she left his office after he suggested changing the ad, he smacked his hands together and grinned, for the first time in what seems like months.

And Don looks awkward when he sees her after her surprise trip to the office.

Later, as she struggled with the ad, Peggy calls Don at home and tells him she tried his idea to see the ad from the kids’ perspective.

‘If you don’t want to do it, don’t do it,’ he tells her, hanging up the phone, before their later dance.

The episode also featured what appeared to be the break-up of Pete and his real estate agent girlfriend, Bonnie.

They take a trip to the Big Apple.

‘I want you shopping all day and screwing all night,’ he told her.

But she balked when she said she wanted to come and meet Pete’s daughter with his ex.

‘I’ve always wanted to do that,’ he said gleefully.

Later she goes shopping and gets annoyed when she finds him working.

‘I don’t like you in New York,’ she tells him, angry that he’s been too busy to spend time with her on her vacation.

‘You’re not going to f*ck your way out of this,’ she says as he tries to kiss her.

She was later seen flying alone back to Los Angeles.

Pete also took the opportunity to visit his daughter Tammy with estranged wife Trudy in Connecticut.

But Tammy doesn’t recognize him.

‘It’s Daddy, sweetheart,’ he tells her as she cowers next to a nanny.

‘I got you a Barbie all the way from California,’ he tells her, to no avail.

And when Trudy finally comes home he fights with her, branding her ‘immoral’ for going on a date.

‘You’ve seen your daughter for the year. Don’t you have a plane to catch?’ she tells him.

‘I don’t like you carrying on like this. It’s immoral. You have a child,’ he tells her after downing several beers.

‘We’re getting a divorce. You are not a part of this family any more,’ she says.

And there were more shocks when it emerged Bob Benson was gay - as he tried to propose to Joan.

Bob, whose been working for the agency in Detroit on the Chevy account, brought two car execs to NYC.

But one of them got in a fight and got arrested when trying to pick up a male cop.

‘I called you because I knew you could keep this to yourself,’ he told Bob as they left.

But the client then reveals that the SCDP is ‘imminently’ losing the Chevy account.

‘But Buick is going to come to you with a great job offer,’ he tells Bob, who looks stunned.

‘How did you live in this city? So much temptation,’ he tells Bob.

‘It was hard,’ Bob said.

‘Bob, you shouldn’t be with a woman,’ she says.

He says he has been - and reveals that he wants to marry her because GM ‘expects a certain kind of executive’.

'I can’t think about this right now,’ she tells him.

He asks her if she’s happy being nearly 40 living in a two-bedroom apartment with her mother and her son.

‘I know I am flawed. But I am offering you more than anyone else ever will,’ he said.

‘No, you’re not Bob. Because I want love. And I’d rather die hoping that happens than make some arrangement. And you should, too,’ she said.

Don and Megan appeared to be getting back together after her trip to New York.

A woozy Don wakes up in bed alone then sees Megan preparing breakfast for them on the terrace.

‘You’re in a good mood,’ she tells him as he nuzzles her.

‘I’m going to take you shopping,’ he said.

Don read an old copy of the New York Times that reveals JFK has been shot and killed as Megan pulled stuff out of the cupboards, telling him she was looking for a fondue set.

‘I want to see you where there’s nothing else going on,’ she tells him as they seemed to be inching closer to getting back together permanently.

But later, as My Way played, she was seen on the same plane as Bonnie in first class, as the curtain that separates the seats from the rest of the plane closed firmly, sparking speculation that both women might not be seen again.

And there was good news for Harry Crane after Jim Cutler proposed making him a partner in the firm, to show off their new computer in the wake of the Chevy deal falling through.

Joan and Roger were against the idea but were outvoted by the other partners.

Earlier Roger, clad only in a towel, was seen in a steam room talking to a rival from another firm, Jim as they discussed Burger Chef.

But he wanted to talk about the agency’s meetings with tobacco giant Philip Morris - and how he thought they could do it with Don still on board.

‘You’re so lucky my problems aren’t your problems,’ Roger told him.

‘What if I wanted them to be?’ Jim asked, cryptically.

Roger joked that the club frowned on ‘people making advances in the steam room’.

‘I think you’re making eyes. I’m going to get a massage and relieve some of this tension,’ he said.

The episode ended with Peggy, Don and Pete sitting at a Burger Chef restaurant as Peggy proposed filming the new ad there, saying it should be about ‘family’.

Pete is unconvinced.

‘Tell her, Don,’ he says.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
