
Typical May weather will prevail in Central Texas this week as temperatures heat up.

Highs for the next seven days will likely be in the upper 80s to nearly 90 degrees. Strong, southerly breezes will continue to prevail, with gusts near 20 to 30 mph at times. Sunshine will break out each afternoon through at least Wednesday.

As temperatures cool off each night, low clouds are expected to re-develop and will probably fill the skies for several hours every morning this week.

Computer models indicate cloud cover will increase toward the end of the week as additional moisture from the Gulf pumps northward.

A new Pacific disturbance will swirl into the Desert Southwest later this week and then push closer to Texas Sunday, bringing with it an at least 20 percent chance for showers and storms. That will be the area's most immediate chance for organized rain.

In the meantime, a bit of drizzle could fall from the morning overcast. Our in-house model shows very light accumulations, less than one-tenth of an inch in most cases, through midweek.

What a cutie! Thanks to Melissa Molina for sharing this photo from Daniel's first day of kindergarten.

Jen Letizia sent in this first day of kindergarten photo.

Dova Michelle Kemp shared this photo of this back-to-school trio!

Thanks to Christine Reed-Machiela for sending in this photo of Kierstyn's first day of second grade at Green Elementary.

Too cute! Deborah Rountree shared this photo of Tristan before her first day of second grade at Fuentes Elementary.

Thanks to Yvette Monique Soliz for the photo of this handsome little guy on his first day back!

First day of kindergarten! Thanks to Cassie Holder for sharing.

Lyla's headed to her first day of kindergarten at Bowie Elementary in San Marcos. Thanks to Sasha Alvarado-DeLeon for sharing!

Jeremy-Linda Riojas shared this photo of Lola, who's headed to fourth grade today, and Abigail Billela, who has her first day of kindergarten today.

© 1999-2014 Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC. All Rights Reserved.
