
PHILADELPHIA, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- The Intellectual Property and Science business of Thomson Reuters , the world's leading provider of intelligent information for businesses and professionals, today announced a collaboration with the United Kingdom's Durham University to streamline the institution's scholarly information management data and workflow through Thomson Reuters CONVERIS , a comprehensive research management system providing pre-and-post-award and open-access repository management to support the entire spectrum of the research lifecycle.

This strategic toolset will provide Durham University with a holistic view of its research activity alongside research analytics, enabling the University to make better informed decisions to drive future success of its research strategy and associated activity and programs.  CONVERIS supports universities, research institutions and funding agencies in collecting and managing data throughout the research workflow with several insight modules, which currently includes pre- & post-award management, publications management, graduate student management, IP portfolio management, data integration and research analytics. The solution collects and curates digital output and streamlines communication between researchers and administrators throughout the research lifecycle with easily adaptable modules that all stakeholders contribute to and from which they take information.

"We are happy to be collaborating with Thomson Reuters to advance the efficacy of our research support," said Wendy Harle, director of Research Office at Durham University. "As the international research landscape becomes increasingly competitive, it is critical to have access to a research management system like CONVERIS that provides an array of flexible tools and a comprehensive view of our research activity that will enable us to maximize the success of our research efforts."

CONVERIS recently became a part of the Thomson Reuters scientific solutions portfolio following the company's December 2013 acquisition of AVEDAS, a German-based organization specializing in the development and implementation of research information systems.

Already available as a bundled offering, CONVERIS will soon offer a seamless integration with InCites™, the leading web-based research analytics platform enabling institutions to measure research output and impact, monitor trends, and benchmark performance against peers at the individual, departmental and global levels. InCites is leveraging CONVERIS research management capabilities through its advanced bibliometric reporting to strengthen the support along the research lifecycle.

"As one of the UKs' leading research institutions, Durham University recognizes that as the research workflow evolves, academic assessment, evaluation and benchmarking need to be even more precise, enabling research stakeholders to make informed decisions that lead to competitive advantage," said Gordon Macomber, managing director, Thomson Reuters Scholarly & Scientific Research. "We are pleased to be providing the University with the necessary tools to help streamline its research processes and by supporting the delivery of its research activity with these tools, to improve the international impact and performance of its efforts in line with its research strategy and ambitions."

Thomson Reuters is the world's leading source of intelligent information for businesses and professionals. We combine industry expertise with innovative technology to deliver critical information to leading decision makers in the financial and risk, legal, tax and accounting, intellectual property and science and media markets, powered by the world's most trusted news organization. For more information, go to  www.thomsonreuters.com .
