
Adani Ports has signed an agreement to acquire Dhamra Port in Odisha from Tata Steel and L&T Infrastructure Develop-ment Projects  for about `5,500 crore. Dhamra Port  is  a  50:50  joint  venture  between  L&T IDPL and  Tata Steel.

“L&T IDPL, a subsidiary of L&T, and Tata Steel on Friday announced that they have executed  a  definitive  agreement  with  Adani  Port and Special  Economic  Zone  to  sell  100 per cent  stake  in  the  Dhamra  Port  Company   for  an enterprise value of around `5,500 crore,” said L&T.“The Dhamra port acquisition now gives us an opportunity to replicate the development and phenomenal growth of the Mundra port on the eastern coast of India and thereby continue to execute on our pan-India strategy,” said Gautam Adani, Chairman of the Adani Group.

The Dhamra port is a deep draft, all weather multi-user port located on the East Coast of India. The port commenced operations in May 2011 and handled a total cargo of 14.3 million tons in FY14. The port has two  full mechanised existing berths, 63 kilometres of a private rail line connecting the Bhadrak station to the main trunk line and has already received environmental clearance for the development of 12 additional berths.

“Following the acquisition, the second phase of development will be initiated within 90 days and completion targeted in 30 months. This continued expansion will allow the Dhamra port exceed 100 million tons of cargo capacity by the year 2020 and therefore allow Adani Ports to fulfil its stated vision of becoming a 200 million metric tons ports business well before the year 2020,” said Adani in a statement.

The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.

Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.

Lines and paragraphs break automatically.

Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.

Lines and paragraphs break automatically.

This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
