
INSIDE Secure (NYSE Euronext: INSD), a leader in embedded solutions for   securing transactions, content and digital identity, today announces the   launch of AT90SC28880RCFV2, an advanced dual interface (contact and   contactless) secure microcontroller with a cryptographic library.   AT90SC28880RCFV2 is designed to provide strong security at high speed   for e-Government applications, mainly digital identification. It   complies with the ISO 14443 contactless card standard, thus fulfills   industry-wide compatibility requirements for transactions between   contact or contactless cards and readers.

There are high numbers of readers already deployed; but they are   heterogeneous. INSIDE's applications engineering laboratory carried out   extensive testing to ensure AT90SC28880RCFV2's interoperability. It was   tested against a wide selection of readers in the field using ISO14443   test suites, and its interoperability was verified at 100 percent.   INSIDE can now provide target users with greater flexibility to carry   out strong user authentication using any reader and in accordance with   strict security requirements.

AT90SC28880RCFV2 is one of the very few microcontrollers on the market   that is able to perform highly secured identification operations at a   very high speed, up to 6.8Mbits/sec with contactless readers. Benefits   of AT90SC28880RCFV2's Very High Bit Rate (VHBR) come in the form of   faster user authentication for checking passports at control gates or   electronic badges at check points, in less than a second.

The Common Criteria EAL5+ (ANSSI-CC-2013/59) and ICAO layer 2   certifications that INSIDE's new dual interface secure microcontroller   has achieved will allow smart card vendors to host the microcontroller   onto smart cards used for passports, ID and health insurance cards. With   this highly certified level of security, smart card vendors will have an   even more robust microcontroller that comes with high-speed operation.   INSIDE Secure has already engaged with customers targeting some of the   largest products in the world.

"Governments and authorities around the world are looking for ways to   more easily and efficiently authenticate users of their services and   manage the process. At the same time, they must protect user privacy, as   well as reduce fraud and identify theft," said Bernard Vian, EVP of the   Secure Transactions business division at INSIDE Secure. "INSIDE's   AT90SC28880RCFV2 secure microcontroller is a step-up in security. It   will accelerate the identity validation process while protecting the   document holder's confidential data, thus adding significant value to   e-ID solutions. Our new secure microcontroller, which uses a ROM-EEPROM   technology, is very price-competitive compared to other technologies. It   meets the price-point for e-Government applications."

Digital Identification is used to reduce fraud and identity theft. It   also eases citizen access to government services and documents.   According to Eurosmart, the international association for the Smart   Security Industry, the 2014 world market figures for smart secure   devices in government applications is forecasted to reach 400 million   units, with shipments up 14 percent from the previous year.

INSIDE's secure microcontroller product family targets e-Government   applications that need a high level of security. AT90SC28880RCFV2   features all the cryptographic algorithms required for e-Government   applications, including DES/3DES, AES, RSA and ECC. With   AT90SC28880RCFV2, INSIDE has broadened its dual interface product   offering with 80KB of EEPROM memory to meet the needs of high-end   e-Government applications. INSIDE offer now covers 18KB (low end) to   80KB (high end).

INSIDE Secure (NYSE Euronext Paris FR0010291245 INSD) provides   comprehensive embedded security solutions. World-leading companies rely   on INSIDE Secure's mobile security and secure transaction offerings to   protect critical assets including connected devices, content, services,   identity and transactions. Unmatched security expertise combined with a   comprehensive range of IP, semiconductors, software and associated   services gives INSIDE Secure customers a single source for advanced   solutions and superior investment protection. For more information,   visit www.insidesecure.com.
