
The former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, has accused the CIA of possibly knowing the whereabouts of missing flight MH370.

Dr Mahathir says that someone is hiding something because if the plane's GPS system failed then Boeing or the US government agency would know why.

In his latest blog, the 88-year-old suggests that in the event of the jet being hijacked, then control of the aircraft could have been remotely activated elsewhere.

He said: "Clearly Boeing and certain agencies have the capacity to take over uninterruptible control of commercial airliners of which MH370 B777 is one.

He added: "Someone is hiding something. It is not fair that MAS and Malaysia should take the blame."

Dr Mahathir, who served as PM from 1981 to 2003, argued that the search for the missing plane would prove fruitless if its markings were disabled.

He said: "It is a waste of time and money to look for debris or oil slick or to listen for “pings” from the black box. This is most likely not an ordinary crash after fuel was exhausted.

"The plane is somewhere, maybe without MAS markings.

"Boeing should explain about this so-called anti-terrorism auto-land system. I cannot imagine the pilots made a soft-landing in rough seas and then quietly drown with the aircraft."

The blog titled 'What goes up must come down' ended by calling on aviation officials to reveal what capabilities they have to seize control of an aircraft.

It is the latest conspiracy theory relating to the missing Malaysia Airlines jet.

The aircraft went missing on March 8 along with 227 passengers and 12 crew members.

So far the search for the vanished aircraft has been the most expensive in history.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
