
Back in the good old days of non-smartphone, there were many trends and flip phones were one of the craze. But durability issues where you can practically break the phone into 2 pieces really seem like a bad idea to have a flip phone after all.

Whatever it is, due to the nature of the flip technology, don’t expect it to be slim nor lightweight. It has a dimension of 17 x 59.5 x 15.8mm and weighs 179g.

The G9098 will have two 3.67-inch Super AMOLED touchscreens of 480 x 800 pixels so you’ll be able to use the phone either when it is open or closed. Surely it will take some getting used to small screen now that we are more ‘exposed’ to having a big screen and high resolution displays.

Under the hood of the G9098 will be the Qualcomm Snapdragon 80x chipset with a Quad-core 2.3 GHz processor. These yet-to-be-confirmed specs would put it toe-to-toe with the rest of the other flagships but it does seem to have a lot of power for such a small screen size.

It should be equipped with a 13 Megapixel primary camera capable of taking shots up to 4128 x 3096 pixels that should come with a host of other features. Plus there will be a 2 Megapixel secondary camera to complete the package.

There’s no mention about the Android Operating System version but it should come with Jelly Bean 4.2 with an option to update it to KitKat 4.4.

As for storage, again there’s no confirmation apart then that it will have a microSD slot for your future expansion needs.

As for the battery, a rather small 1900 mAh battery should be sufficient to supply it with enough juice for a day or two of modest usage.

To wrap it up, the Samsung G9098 could be a hot cake or a dud. But seeing that it’s coming from the master or marketing strategist, it could be the former. With some great advertising skills, we could truly see the return of the flip phones. Or not. But at least we as consumers will have a choice. Not to mention, it will also have dual sim capability which is a plus point.

The Samsung G9098 is targeted for release in China in the next few months. As for the pricing, we’ll have to wait and see for Samsung’s confirmation.

Become a WhaTech member and share your news with us.

Subscribe now to get our Mobile-Only newsletter. Stay up to date with all the latest news and reviews from the world of mobile computing.
