
Star Wars fans celebrated the saga while boosting Orlando's tourism economy during Star Wars Weekends at Disney's Hollywood Studios.

You never know who you'll see in the crowd at Disney's Hollywood Studios during Star Wars Weekends.

The happiest place on earth has once again become the bright center of the geek universe.

Star Wars Weekends 2014 at Walt Disney World Resort is gathering a roster of celebrities, drawing thousands of eager fans and putting Orlando's pre-summer tourist season into hyperdrive. Not only do locals beat a path to the party, vacationers base their stay on the event schedule. And while Disney attendance numbers are as hard to get as a Lucasfilm copy of the new Star Wars script, the evidence of success is not hard to spot.

Disney's Hollywood Studios kicked off the celestial celebration on Friday, May 16 — the same day filming began on Star Wars Episode VII . Star Wars personalities including Peter Mayhew , aka Chewbacca, and Vanessa Marshall , the voice actor behind the Twi'lek pilot Hera Syndulla in the Disney XD series Star Wars Rebels, appeared in parades and stage shows. Costumed characters roamed the streets posing for photos and suffering through selfies. Even the fans arrived in costume, and I don't mean princess dresses. They wore Jedi robes, bounty hunter helmets — I even spotted a Slave Leia metal bikini in the crowd. It truly was the happiest place on earth. And then there were the lines.

Some fans took advantage of the My Magic+ benefit and reserved their spot for events at the Premier Theater. But the force of the Fast Pass did not penetrate every level of the event. At 9:10 a.m., the estimated 2.5-hour wait time at merchandise mecca Darth's Mall even outweighed the 65-minute line at Toy Story Midway Mania. No doubt which toys were more popular. Fans began gathering for the 11:30 a.m. parade at 10 a.m. Thankfully, there were clear skies and lower-than-normal temperatures because the scent of a Disney crowd on a hot day will summon the Dark Side. Even the young hopefuls of the Jedi Training Academy had to line up to sign up for their spot in one of the day's 19 scheduled classes. And every spot was filled before 11:30 a.m.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Orlando Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
