
A heartbroken husband who switched off his wife’s life support machine found out three days later she was still alive when he called the hospital to make funeral arrangements.

Malcolm Greenhill says he was told his wife Marilyn would only live for a couple of minutes after her machine was switched off at Sandwell General Hospital.

But the family was stunned to discover three days later that the 65-year-old grandmother had continued to breathe unaided and was still alive on the ward.

At her inquest, Mr Greenhill told of the family’s distress when they realised Mrs Greenhill had been left on her own over the Bank Holiday weekend, while they told extended family – including her grandchildren – that she had died the same day.

He said it had been like ‘grieving for her twice’.

Mrs Greenhill had suffered bleeding to the brain when she fell down the stairs at her home in West Bromwich on May 3.

Doctors at the hospital told Mr Greenhill nothing could be done to save his wife of 41 years and on medical advice he made the heartbreaking decision to turn off her machine at 6pm on May 3.

At the inquest at Smethwick Coroners Court, assistant coroner Mr Angus Smillie heard how Mr Greenhill returned home from work at 12.30pm and found his wife lying at the bottom of the stairs at their home on Griffiths Road, West Bromwich.

Mrs Greenhill was admitted to Sandwell General Hospital where a CT scan found she had suffered a brain haemorrhage.

Mr Greenhill told the inquest: “I was told it was only the machine keeping her breathing and there was no point prolonging the inevitable.

Son Craig said: “Dad turned her machine off on Saturday Bank Holiday and we were told to call back on Tuesday but when we spoke to the mortuary at the hospital they told us they couldn’t find her.

After discovering Mrs Greenhill was still alive, her family rushed back to the hospital and stayed at her bedside until she died at 7pm on May 7.

Adjourning the inquest for three months, Mr Angus Smillie said: “It is an unexpected turn of events, you went home thinking she had passed away only to find out days later that she was in fact still alive.

Leader of Sandwell Council Darren Cooper said he was ‘shocked’ by what had happened and called for a full investigation.

“My thoughts go to the family. It’s a shocking set of circumstances,” he said.
