
Credit Suisse will plead guilty to criminal charges and pay over $2 billion in fines in connection to allegations of tax evasion. But the CEO and chairman are reportedly expected to keep their jobs.

Copyright © 2014 NPR. For personal, noncommercial use only. See Terms of Use. For other uses, prior permission required.

The Justice Department also criminally charged the Swiss bank Credit Suisse today with helping Americans evade taxes. A plea hearing is set for later this hour. NPR's Yuki Noguchi is following this tory and joins us now. Hi.

YUKI NOGUCHI, BYLINE: Hello, Robert.

NOGUCHI: Well, willingly aiding and assisting and allowing its U.S. clients to avoid taxes, including falsifying income tax returns and other documents to the IRS. Now, of course, this is something that has been on the books for 20 years, the laws - I mean, many years. And it's sort of a statement that the Department of Justice is trying to make about cracking down on tax evasion. And there's a strong impetus here for the Justice Department to go after banks criminally because, you know, there's been a reputation that they've been soft on the banks in recent years.

NOGUCHI: Right. That was a deferred prosecution agreement in that case, and the government later dropped that case. Now, what I'm hearing could be different about this Credit Suisse case is that Credit Suisse will probably not hand over some of the client information, which is what UBS did. So, there may be some subtle differences herein the cases. We have yet to sort of have some details come out. So, the detail's a little bit sketchy.

NOGUCHI: Well, I mean, it already has in the sense that the stock has taken a huge hit. But, you know, the reports are that Credit Suisse has negotiated a plea deal here that will enable it to continue to do business in the U.S. I mean, it's important for an international bank to be able to do business in the U.S. And so the assumption here is that they will continue to be able to operate in the U.S. The reports say that they will continue to have their leadership intact. And, you know, they should be able to, you know, continue to do business as usual but that in exchange, they have to pay this hefty fine and also the criminal plea.

SIEGEL: And that plea is something we expect within the hour you say.

NOGUCHI: Yes. There's a press conference scheduled for 6 p.m. tonight and a plea hearing at 5:30.

SIEGEL: OK. That's NPR's Yuki Noguchi. Thanks.

NOGUCHI: Thank you.

Copyright © 2014 NPR. All rights reserved. No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to NPR. This transcript is provided for personal, noncommercial use only, pursuant to our Terms of Use. Any other use requires NPR's prior permission. Visit our permissions page for further information.

NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by a contractor for NPR, and accuracy and availability may vary. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Please be aware that the authoritative record of NPR's programming is the audio.

Please keep your community civil. All comments must follow the NPR.org Community rules and terms of use , and will be moderated prior to posting. NPR reserves the right to use the comments we receive, in whole or in part, and to use the commenter's name and location, in any medium. See also the Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Community FAQ .
