
A RIDGEHAVEN phone tower would be lengthened and fitted with six new antennai under a proposal to increase mobile coverage and internet speeds for Vodafone and Optus customers.

Vodafone has submitted an application to Tea Tree Gully Council to upgrade its 30m phone tower on Ashley Ave by removing the three existing antennas to make way for the six new ones.

The tower would be lengthened by about half a metre and the company has also requested an 8sq m increase in the land that it leases around the site from Tea Tree Gully Council (currently about 15sq m).

Gully councillors last week voted to put the expansion plans out to community consultation.

Do you support expanding the phone tower to improve mobile coverage and internet access? Tell us by leaving a comment below.

The council’s chief finance officer Ryan McMahon said that, if approved, nearby residents would be impacted by a “minor change’’ in the height of the fence at the phone tower site.

“The length of the fence will need to be slightly extended and the height of the phone tower already there won’t change too much,” Mr McMahon said.

Vodafone’s head of communications Elise Davidson said residents living in Ridgehaven, Para Hills, Para Vista, Gulfview Heights, Modbury North, Modbury Heights, Mawson Lakes and Ingle Farm would be among suburbs likely to benefit from the tower expansion.

Ms Davidson said more than 1000 residents would benefit from improved inside phone coverage and higher internet speeds as it was part of the national site sharing project between Vodafone and Optus.

An approval will allow for the upgrade of the site and improvement in the mobile phone coverage for customers in the area,” Ms Davidson said.

She would not provide the Leader Messenger with an exact number of residents likely to benefit from the upgrade as was in “commercial in confidence”.

Community consultation will begin today (Wednesday, May 21) and is expected to end on Friday, June 20.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
