
Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

WASHINGTON: Credit Suisse admitted guilt and was fined $2.6 billion Monday for helping Americans avoid taxes, the first time in 20 years a major bank has been punished on US criminal charges.

US authorities said the Swiss bank, one of the world's largest wealth managers, helped thousands of rich people hide money in accounts under false names and in fake foundations for decades.

In one case, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the bank had been used to hide money from US tax collectors for more than a century, they said.

In a negotiated deal, Credit Suisse admitted guilt on one felony criminal charge of conspiracy to aid tax evasion and to pay the steep fine.

As part of the deal it can continue operating in the United States without fear of losing its license.

"This case shows that no financial institution, no matter its size or global reach, is above the law," US Attorney General Eric Holder said.

"When a bank engages in misconduct that is this brazen, it should expect that the Justice Department will pursue criminal prosecution to the fullest extent possible, as has happened here."

The single charge filed in the federal district court in Alexandria, Virginia said Credit Suisse "did unlawfully, voluntarily, intentionally, and knowingly conspire" to help US citizens prepare and file false income tax returns.

The Justice Department said the Swiss bank helped people hide incomes in sham nominee accounts, destroyed account records, and hand-delivered money from the accounts to help clients avoid taxes.

"Hundreds of Credit Suisse employees including at the manager level conspired to help tax cheats," said US Attorney Dana Boente.

"The bank went to elaborate lengths to shield itself, its employees, and the tax cheats that it served from accountability."

The fine is the largest so far in a sweeping, years-long US push to force Switzerland to stop serving as a tax haven.

Thirteen other Swiss banks have been targeted in similar probes, and 100 others have been pressed to cooperate with US authorities and pay penalties for helping clients avoid US tax laws.

Eight Credit Suisse employees have been indicted, and two have pleaded guilty, though none of them top executives.

US officials said the effort has persuaded 43,000 US taxpayers to disclose offshore assets and pay more than $6 billion in back taxes.

The $2.6 billion the bank has agreed to pay includes $1.8 billion in fines and restitution to the Internal Revenue Service, the US government tax collector.

In addition, the bank will pay $715 million to the financial services regulator of New York, where the bank is primarily licensed, and $100 million to the Federal Reserve.

In February Credit Suisse also paid $196 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission for violations.

"Pursuing international tax evasion is a priority area" said IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. "We will continue to follow the money here in the United States and around the world."

The case stood as a warning to US tax payers, but as well to major financial institutions.

US justice authorities have been under great criticism for not prosecuting large banks especially for acts that led to the 2008 financial crash.

While no US banks appear at the moment to face criminal charges, authorities are also reportedly negotiating a prosecution deal with French Bank BNP Paribas over business it allegedly did with Iran, Sudan and other countries in violation of US sanctions regimes.

BNP last year set aside 789 million euros ($1.1 billion) to resolve the case, but has allowed that fines paid could be much larger.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
