
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am currently a vice president at Eastwick Communications (I do not write about my clients and will disclose any potential conflicts of interest) and have been a technology writer for nearly two decades. I started at CRN covering distributors and Apple and then moved to CNET, where I  helped manage the coverage for hardware, green tech, software and science for nearly 11 years. (I got tased for a story once too: it's like being dunked in boiling oil.). Between 2008 and 2011 I was a senior analyst and editor in chief of Greentech Media. I've spoken in Europe, Asia and the U.S. on green technology and hardware, appeared on 60 Minutes, represented multinational corporations as a lawyer in the late 80s and written special reports on the tech industries in Israel, the Middle East, China, India and Europe.  One summer, I also gave out coupons for free nickels at a casino in Reno.

Toyota’s love affair with hydrogen cannot be denied.

The Japanese auto giant announced earlier this month that it will phase out an agreement announced in 2010 with Tesla Motors Tesla Motors for Tesla to deliver battery packs for electric cars. Instead, Toyota will focus on hydrogen fuel cells. There are other elements to the relationship—Toyota invested $50 million in Tesla and there has been general development work going on between the companies—but the lynchpin was the supply agreement. Don’t expect to see a lot more photo ops with Elon Musk and Akio Toyoda .

Part of the decision has to do with sales. Toyota’s all-electric RAV-4 has not sold well. “They can’t even give these cars away,” John O’ Dell Dell , an analyst for Edmunds.com, told the New York Times . Toyota’s plug-in Prius, which uses lithium batteries, has also not been racking up great sales. The additional battery power only allows the car to go 11 miles on electric power. Toyota is cutting the price to compete better against similar cars from Ford and General Motors General Motors .

But there is also another side of the story. Simply put, Toyota has never liked battery-powered cars. I recall a presentation by Masatami Takimoto , executive vice president for the technology department at Toyota, at a conference in Denmark in 2008—when clean technology was set to take over the world—where he extensively talked about how battery-powered cars will never become mainstream.

In his slide deck, he showed lithium ion batteries hitting a brick wall.

Other Toyota executives have told me over the years how the experience with the first all-electric RAV 4, which was powered by nickel hydride batteries, was also painful. Consumers came into talk about the car and take test drives, but the sales conversion rate remained low.

Granted, hydrogen cars have had even a more tortured history. Hydrogen isn’t cheap to produce, manufacturing it can generate significant amounts of carbon emissions, and there are only a token number of filling stations. Hydrogen fuel cells are also expensive and their lifetime is uncertain. Honda sold a whopping two fuel cell cars in 2012.

Still, hydrogen potentially solves two critical problems. Hydrogen fuel cells can eliminate substantial amounts of mass in electric cars, boosting performance and range, and reduce the time required to recharging.

Car dealers, I suspect, also believe that they can have more control over the development of their cars with fuel cells. Batteries and battery packs typically come from outside suppliers. “The battery defines the architecture of the car,” Ulrich Hackenberg, a board member at EV-reluctant Volkswagen, has said. Fuel cells are integrated elements of vehicles. Fuel cells ultimately are more like an engine. Interestingly, Nissan, the most EV-happy of the major auto makers, gets its batteries from a joint development deal with NEC.
