
"Southwest Airlines is Dallas' hometown airline, and we invest in all the communities we serve. Klyde Warren Park is one of the most popular outdoor locations in the city and creating a long-term partnership with this iconic location in Dallas was important for Southwest," said Kevin Krone, Southwest Airlines Chief Marketing Officer.  "This year is a big one for Southwest and Dallas—we have great things planned and are ready to celebrate with the community."

"We are thrilled to have Southwest Airlines as a Klyde Warren Park partner and to offer our park patrons a new fantastic amenity," said Tara Green, Klyde Warren Park President. "The Southwest Porch enhances the experience at Relish, with its fresh design, unique seating options and a comfortable lounge area. The Porch is unlike anything else we have, and we are excited that this partnership has created a new area to bring even more programs and events to the park."

Southwest celebrated the opening of the Southwest Porch today with local community partners and representatives from Southwest and Klyde Warren Park. The Porch is an extension of Relish, which serves quick to-go fare, including signature relish burgers and hotdogs, a variety of French fries and hot beignets for breakfast. Relish is open Monday through Sunday, from 11 a.m.—8p.m.  Guests will be able to enjoy the sounds and sights of the park from the Southwest Porch, as well as free Wi-Fi.

ABOUT SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.

In its 43rd year of service, Dallas-based Southwest Airlines LUV, +0.85% continues to differentiate itself from other carriers with exemplary Customer Service delivered by more than 45,000 Employees to more than 100 million Customers annually. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, Southwest is the nation's largest carrier in terms of originating domestic passengers boarded.  The airline also operates the largest fleet of Boeing aircraft in the world to serve 96 destinations in 41 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and five near-international countries via wholly owned subsidiary, AirTran Airways. Southwest is one of the most honored airlines in the world, known for its triple bottom line approach that takes into account the carrier's performance and productivity, the importance of its People and the communities it serves, and its commitment to efficiency and the planet. The 2013 Southwest Airlines One Report™ can be found at  www. southwestonereport.com.

From its first flights on June 18, 1971, Southwest Airlines launched an era of unprecedented affordability in air travel described by the U.S. Department of Transportation as "The Southwest Effect," a lowering of fares and increase in passenger traffic wherever the carrier serves. With Southwest Airlines, Bags Fly Free ® (first and second checked pieces of luggage, size and weight limits apply), and there are no change fees when you need to change your flight. Southwest's fleet offers leather seating and the comfort of full-size cabins, a majority of which are equipped with satellite-based WiFi connectivity over the United States, which enables live and video-on-demand TV currently FREE compliments of DISH, and a new, sustainable cabin interior. Southwest acquired AirTran Airways in May 2011 and by the end of 2014 intends to complete the full integration of the AirTran network into Southwest. With 41 consecutive years of profitability, the People of Southwest and AirTran operate more than 3,600 flights a day. Southwest Airlines' frequent flights and low fares are available online at  southwest.com  or by phone at 800-I-FLY-SWA.

Klyde Warren Park is a 5.2-acre deck park, bridging Uptown Dallas to Downtown Dallas. The park includes a performance pavilion, restaurant, dog park, children's park, great lawn, shaded walking paths, water features, free Wi-Fi, ping pong and foosball tables, and a reading and games area. The mission of Klyde Warren Park is to provide free daily programs to all visitors. Klyde Warren Park is privately operated and managed by the Woodall Rodgers Park Foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. For more information on programming, volunteering or to make a donation to support free daily programs, please visit www.KlydeWarrenPark.org .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
