
A heartbroken husband who thought he’d watched his wife of 41 years die after switching off her life support machine found out three days later she was still alive.

Doctors at Sandwell General Hospital, in West Bromwich, West Midlands, told Malcolm Greenhill it would take just a few minutes for his 65-year-old wife Marilyn to pass away so he said his goodbyes before leaving her bedside.

The 62-year-old then returned home to inform their children and the rest of the family of his wife's death, after she suffered a bleed to the brain when falling down the stairs of the couple’s home in West Bromwich on May 3.

However, when he phoned the hospital three days later to make arrangements for her body to be released for burial he was shockingly told she was still alive and breathing on her own.

Mr Greenhill told an inquest into her death how he had to watch his wife ‘die twice’ because of the blunder.

Giving evidence at Smethwick Coroners Court he said he would never have left his wife’s side for her remaining four days if he had known she was still alive.

He said: ‘I was told it was only the machine keeping her breathing and there was no point prolonging the inevitable.

‘They told us there was nothing more they could do and she would only live for a couple of minutes once I turned the machine off so I said my goodbyes.

‘It is like grieving for her dying twice, I said goodbye twice.

The grandmother was hospitalised after her husband discovered her lifeless body at the bottom of the stairs of the couple's home after she fell on May 3.

She was taken to hospital but doctors said nothing could be done to save her life and Mr Greenhill made the heart-breaking decision to turn off the life support keeping her alive at 6pm on the same day.

The couple’s daughter, Joanne Highfield, 39, told the hearing: ‘We didn’t know that for three days she had laid there alone, she was still breathing.

The pair’s son Craig, 41, said the blunder only emerged after staff at Sandwell General Hospital couldn't find Marilyn's body in the mortuary.

He said: ‘Dad turned her machine off on Saturday Bank Holiday and we were told to call back on Tuesday but when we spoke to the mortuary at the hospital they told us they couldn't find her.

Assistant Black Country Coroner Mr Angus Smillie adjourned the inquest into her death for three months, describing the incident as a ‘fairly extraordinary turn of events’.

He said: ‘It is an unexpected turn of events, you went home thinking she had passed away only to find out days later that she was in fact still alive.

‘It would be inappropriate of me to conclude the inquest today because of the unusual circumstances.

‘I would like to adjourn for three months for more medical information and for an investigation into exactly what happened in those intervening days.

A spokesman for Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs Sandwell General Hospital, said the death was being thoroughly investigated.

Sam Holdsworth, communications support officer, said: ‘Our condolences go out to Mrs Greenhill’s family at this difficult time.

‘Deaths in our trust are thoroughly investigated.

Darren Cooper, leader of Sandwell Council, said there had been a ‘massive breakdown in communication’ between the family and hospital and called for a full investigation.

He said: ‘My thoughts go to the family. It’s a shocking set of circumstances.

‘There appears to have been a massive breakdown in communication between the hospital team and the family.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
