
While Bill Ackman has been basically monopolizing the short view of Herbalife Ltd. ( NYSE:HLF ) with his continual attacks, now another hedge fund manager is getting in on the action. Vijay Marolia of Regal Point Capital Management told ValueWalk that he trusts Ackman’s due diligence more than he does Carl Icahn’s.

Regal Point issued its short thesis on Herbalife Ltd. ( NYSE:HLF ) last week. The firm states that Herbalife’s business model is not sustainable and that while recruitment is vital to success, it becomes difficult to recruit while regulators are scrutinizing the company. Marolia’s firm also points to the recent ABC News investigation into the controversial company, increasing regulatory probes , and sell-offs of Herbalife stock by institutional investors.

On the bullish side, Regal Point does say that Herbalife Ltd. ( NYSE:HLF )’s valuation looks cheap as its business grows. It plans to complete $266 million worth of share buybacks during the second quarter, and Carl Icahn and other big investors “seem to like it.” In addition, Herbalife has been around for more than 30 years and operates in more than 90 different countries.

The firm does state, however, that it is maintaining its short position in Herbalife Ltd. ( NYSE:HLF ), siding with Bill Ackman. “The best companies to short involve fraud, fads, and failures–this company fits all three,” Marolia said.

In an email, fund manager Vijay Marolia told ValueWalk that he believes a “Snake Oil” salesman started Herbalife Ltd. ( NYSE:HLF ) and that its “entire business model is based on recruiting new snake oil salesman [sic].” He also explained why he sides with Bill Ackman rather than Carl Icahn.

herbs4mike .

Another hit piece…. just paid for trash. It was amazing they tried to throw in a little bullishness. Actually, I’m going to talk to a lawyer about this author labeling me a snake oil salesman. Because that is just a stereotypical smear of a huge munber of people that they don’t know.

As for the facts concerning ackman’s DD. His analyst was busted totally out by fusion research on Seeking alpha investors blog a year ago. Ackman’s got nothing. In fact, he is probably covering his short now while advertising others to get in so he doesn’t lose so much….. That’s Ackman…. and it even says so in his disclaimer.

that only happens in the movies…those ftc employees would love a job working for Icahn or soros..ftc is just training for better job later..Icahn, soros, perry, bass, these are the men they hope to work for some day.

those high level officers are laughing their ass off at all these idiots shorting the stock and buying puts.  they are laughing all the way to the bank..stock is up again today over 2 percent…up 25 percent AFTER FTC AND FBI made the announcements. funny way of going to zero. I guess its going to ONE ZERO ZERO.

I only know of 2, and I’m not 100% sure of them, because I haven’t fully researched them. Tupperware and Pampered Chef. I believe both have adequate retail sales to non-distributors and no tool scam.

"The ability to act on timely, high-quality information separates the successful investor from their peers. The ValueWalk Newsletter is one of the best sources of news and analysis from the business and investing community."
