
Mumbai: Lenders and metal makers led Indian shares to a record high, offsetting losses in software and health-care companies, as Narendra Modi's election victory spurred stocks that benefit most from a stronger economy.

State Bank of India jumped 5.7 per cent, sending a gauge of lenders to an all-time high. Sesa Sterlite Ltd. headed for its highest level in more than two years. Tata Consultancy Services and drugmaker Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. paced losses in defensive stocks. The rupee climbed to an 11-month high.

The S&P BSE Sensex rose 1 per cent to 24,360.1 at 3:15 p.m. in Mumbai. Narendra Modi's opposition bloc swept to power on May 16 as voters tired of sluggish economic growth and graft handed a historic defeat to the ruling Congress Party.

The win puts Modi in a position to pass measures to bolster Asia's third- biggest economy, spurring optimism it will lead a recovery among the largest emerging markets.

"Investors are buying cyclicals on optimism the economy will turn around within the next two years," R K Gupta, managing director of Taurus Asset Management Co., which oversees about $585 million, said by phone from New Delhi. "Software and drug exporters are under pressure as a strong rupee will erode their margins."

All of the 10 top performers in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which increased 0.3 per cent, are Indian stocks. Reliance Infrastructure, Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. and Bharat Heavy Electricals jumped at least 14 per cent. Software makers Tata Consultancy Services and Infosys Ltd., and drugmaker Sun Pharmaceuticals Ltd., led declines on the gauge.

The CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. gained 0.9 per cent to 7,268.65, an all-time high. The S&P BSE Small Cap Index jumped 5.6 per cent, the most since May 2009, as 367 of the 448 stocks on the gauge advanced.

The Sensex has climbed 15 per cent this year and trades at 15.1 times projected 12-month earnings, the most expensive level since May 2011.

The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is valued at 10.7 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.

India's rupee rose toward an 11-month high, after a 2.1 percent rally last week that was the world's best performance, as the nation's clearest election results in three decades boosted investor confidence.

The rupee rose "on the back of victory for the BJP with a majority," analysts at Angel Broking Ltd., including Anish Vyas in Mumbai, wrote in a research report, Tuesday.

Any "sharp upside in the currency will be capped due to dollar demand from oil importers and the central bank," they wrote.

The currency rose 0.3 per cent yesterday to 58.5950 per dollar in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.

It touched 58.3750 during the day, the strongest level since June 18, 2013. Last week's gain in the rupee was the biggest five-day advance since September last year.
