
Only the status quo will keep the Internet 'open,' net neutrality advocates insist. But a refined approach may ignite more network investment.

Apparently this issue isn't to be debated: Net neutrality must stand, un-amended... was the consensus from the handful of readers who emailed me on the subject. But I don't see things so cut and dried.

As you've probably already read or heard, more than 100 Internet bigwigs -- Google, Facebook, Amazon, and Twitter among them -- laid into FCC chairman Tom Wheeler's plan to give network providers more freedom to charge customers extra for faster data delivery over their slices of the Internet. The fear, as my colleague Tom Claburn wrote, is that this so-called paid prioritization "will turn the Internet into a protection racket." That is, dominant providers such as Verizon, Comcast, and AT&T would require heavy Internet users such as Google and Netflix to pay extra for "fast lanes" for their traffic -- or suffer the consequences. In the meantime, the reasoning goes, shallow-pocketed commercial Internet users would be put at a competitive disadvantage.

The telecom operators already provide priority delivery of certain business customers' Internet traffic through VPN and QoS services. Enhancing that model -- letting them offer gold-standard security for financial transactions, for instance, or guaranteed connectivity for healthcare monitoring -- isn't the end of the Internet as we know it. It's a business opportunity for the carriers. Yes, it stands to make them more money. But it also gives them more incentive to invest in their networks.

Electronic Superhighway by Nam June Paik.

Supporters of the FCC's relaxation of net neutrality rules, including George Foote, a partner with law firm Dorsey & Whitney who has worked with the agency, think there's less here than meets the eye. "The final rules will require a strong baseline level of service," Foote said in a statement . He added: "As for the so-called fast lane, all that does is open the door to better or different service for a fee. The FCC commissioners made it clear that existing law and the threat of heavier regulation should give pause to monopolists."

The FCC has decided that it's prudent to move ahead slowly, voting three to two on Thursday to open its controversial proposal to public comment . Good. Let's hear all sides. Meantime, what do you think about the FCC's move to relax net neutrality rules? Hopefully, we can have a civil conversation on this issue in the comments section below.

Our InformationWeek Elite 100 issue -- our 26th ranking of technology innovators -- shines a spotlight on businesses that are succeeding because of their digital strategies. We take a close at look at the top five companies in this year's ranking and the eight winners of our Business Innovation awards, and offer 20 great ideas that you can use in your company. We also provide a ranked list of our Elite 100 innovators. Read our InformationWeek Elite 100 issue today.

you can get the best vpn service with wasel pro , it will hide your identity online , secure browsing , speed up your internet connection and much more.

Comparing net neutrality to post office rates doesn't work, because the post office only increases the price for people who actually want to pay for, and receive, faster delivery.

Unlike the post office, companies like Netflix don't have tiered pricing structures that are based on CDN speeds; customers all pay the same prices, regardless of who they get their Internet service from.

Netflix isn't about to pay for faster delivery pipes out of their own pocket, they'll just raise the monthly fee that all customers pay. That means that if I don't use Comcast as an internet provider, I'm paying Netflix for faster pipes that I'm not using.

Why should I pay Netflix to give better streaming service to Comcast customers? That's like asking me to pay the post office for your overnight delivery letter.

The only way that this can be fixed is by instituting laws that protect the customer. Claiming that the FCC is going to keep things fair because people are complaining is like saying that there is no need to have laws against theft, because victim complaints are enough to guarantee that thieves will go to jail.

The FCC is a commissioned body that creates rules on how various industries (such as telecom) operate.

An ISP provides internet services to users via cable or wireless connections. A content provider is anyone who has a website that delivers content to internet users.

Net neutrality is when an ISP treats all content on the internet neutrally, and does not prioritize one over the other.

Not sure why everybody is hyped up about Net Neutrality and how it affects you? Here is a rundown of the good, the bad and the ugly about Net Neutrality.

OK, so lets take a look at what you said.... re: "The content providers aren't the customers of the network operators unless they choose to be. No one is forcing the content providers to pay up."

re: "The network operators want more freedom to create fast lanes because they want to make money from them." Duh! What's in question here is whether that's a good thing or a bad thing, whether you've enough foresight to see the outcomes, and if you've enough critical thinking skills to see through their propaganda.

re: "If carriers look to slow down the traffic of certain content providers or competitors, the FCC is sill there to make sure that doesn't happen." And, of course we trust them because of their previously excellent track record, and lack of government corruption from lobbying. Yup.

re: "No one is saying the operators can do as they please." Oh, of course not, they'll have to pay the right people some money for that to happen.... Um, earth to Rob, they've already been doing that for decades!

I really need to read up on the whole Net Neutrality deal.  So far I've seen people's understanding range from cost neutrality, traffic neutrality, to alien invasions.  If it is traffic neutrality then wouldn't that pave the way to dropping QOS?  If it is cost neutrality then I have no idea what people are comparing it to.

This Short youtube Video also giving a concept of Net Neutrality and What should we do to save them..

Come on, stevew98. You question my critical thinking? I can't even follow your argument. You "wonder why they are fighting so hard to keep the regulation in a state of allowing them to do so"? What does that even mean? The network operators want more freedom to create fast lanes because they want to make money from them. Plain and simple. No one is being duped here. It's quite transparent. Regulation of those operators still exists. The FCC, which was the overseer of net neutrality, has said it will ensure that baseline service is preserved. If carriers look to slow down the traffic of certain content providers or competitors, the FCC is sill there to make sure that doesn't happen. Should it happen anyway under the FCC's watch, there's the hue and cry of the public to also keep the carriers in check. No one is saying the operators can do as they please.

Lastly, why do consumers, ISPs, and content providers in Europe not have this 'problem'? How come that you can get Gigabit fiber in Romania for 15$ a month? Or the same for not that much more in Germany, but tremendously less than slowpoke service in the US? The reason is that the formerly government owned telcos were forced to sell their services to anyone and charge each the same price. Service providers know what their access fee will be and can model their business based on that. Also, entry to market is much easier. As far as the telcos goes, the more providers the better because they each have to pay and the more bandwidth available the more providers can join in. The telco itself can offer services as well, but preferring its own service over others is not only illegal, it is strictly controlled.

The US Internet/Phone/TV market is totally destroyed because we have very few players and they do everything from content creation, to major networking, and the last mile. That needs to be broken up. Either you create content, you run major networks, or you do the last mile, but only one of these things. This is how the US electricity market was set up and it includes strict controls for at least one provider. The local and regional power companies are no longer allowed to generate electricity, the major distribution network is run independently, and producers can access both and sell their service to consumers. It is an effective scheme and it does not allow for cutting one short while benefiting the other. The result is that electricity in the US is fairly cheap.

We have independent Internet monitoring services with different areas of focus. Compuware and Cedexis are capable of measuring ongoing performance of particular sites; AppNeta can measure performance of individual Internet network segments. AppDynamics and New Relic can measure specific app performance over the Web. With such tools, the FCC should be able to monitor that there's no deterioration of general traffic lanes as fast lanes get implemented.

It's actually worse than that. It's more like, you pay $1000/month to drive on the freeway, which is a lot of money, but hey, you need to travel. And, quite possibly, you have to commute to work and buy groceries as well. You wish you could find a route that was a bit cheaper and with less potholes, but HighwayCo owns all the roads, and has little incentive to fix the potholes. Cost analysis has shown that it only costs HighwayCo about $5-$10 to let you drive on their roads, but they constantly complain that if you want better roads, they need more money to invest.

Then a new thing starts to happen. HighwayCo decides it might be a good idea if they could get the cities you travel to to chip in on the roads, so they can afford to improve them. Chicago and LA have some money, and while they don't really want to pay HighwayCo, they need to get people to their cities to work and buy things. So, they start paying HighwayCo extra to fix some potholes on those routes. Fort Bend and Modesto, on the other hand, can't really afford to pay HighwayCo, so the roads keep deteriorating.

The HTC (Highway Travel Commission) has been getting pressure to reclassify highways to be handled more like utilities, as they realize everyone needs them including the drivers and the cities, but there is a lot of monetary pressure to just tweak the rules a bit and hopefully fool the people into believeing that a tiered solution that leaves HighwayCo with no competion is the best solution. So, to try and placate the people, they make a rule that it's OK for HighwayCo to continue to improve routes to Chicago and LA, so long as they provide a 'reasonable' service to Fort Bend and Modesto as well. Pot holes really aren't all that unreasonable though, as people can always buy 4x4s. They might fix a really bad one here and there. And, they won't ever really widen those roads, and probably won't mow the ditches. And, they do put some money into improving the roads to Chicago and LA, even though it's a tiny percentage, it looks like progress (especially compared to Fort Bend and Modesto).

But HighwayCo doesn't just do roads. They are trying to start their own city, HighwayTown. They have realized that they can make even more money if they control both the highways and the destination. They keep raising the prices to fix and improve the roads, while they make a spectacular road to HighwayTown.

This trend continues, as the road to HighwayTown starts to make the roads to Chicago and LA seem poor. And, hardly anyone goes to Fort Bend and Modesto anymore as it's pretty risky and you take damage to your vehicle. But, hey, the roads are still there, as promised. They did fix a huge pothole that caused a 20 car pile-up outside Modesto a few weeks back, good-ol' HighwayCo.... always taking care of their customers.

The next year, DrEvil came to power in the country to establish his EvilKindgom. LA went along with the plan, but Chicago was quite opposed to DrEvil's plan. DrEvil had a solution though. He gave HighwayCo a tax incentive far greater than Chicago was paying to keep their medium level roads. HighwayCo stopped improving the roads to Chicago, so they drifted towards the state of the roads of Modesto and South Bend. Fortunately the HTC had that little line in place that they *had* to provide a minimal level of roads... so Chicago at least knew people *could* get there if they absolutely needed to. Pshew! But most people went to HighwayTown and some even still went to LA. Chicago also became a ghost-town over time, and had little influence on DrEvil's plans any longer.

I think many are fooled by the term free-market. Free doesn't mean 'anything goes.' Free means free from forces which unbalance the system. You need properly regulation to acheive that, given human nature.

UPCOMING!

If you found this interesting or useful, please use the links to the services below to share it with other readers.  You will need a free account with each service to share an item via that service.
