
ARIEL COHEN: Ten years from now, electric (EV), hybrid and natural-gas powered cars will make some, albeit not yet decisive, inroads in our lives. There are economic, lifestyle and technological reasons for this.

First, it is the technology of hydraulic fracturing, and improved 3-D seismic and imaging techniques, which provides us with the ability to find even small oil and gas fields in abundance. Cheaper natural gas produces cheaper electricity, which can then be loaded onto and stored in a battery in an EVs. The electricity may then be stored on board the vehicle using a  battery ,  flywheel , or  supercapacitors .

The natural gas abundance allows us to run fleets of trucks, buses, delivery vehicles like FedEx , and even taxicabs. In turn, less gasoline is needed, including from Venezuela and the Middle East, but more U.S.-produced gas is powering our cars and trucks.

Technology is also a limiting factor in extending the range, and diminishing the price, of a battery-powered car. Today Tesla Model S is approaching 300 miles with its heavy, most powerful battery lithium-iron. Better storage capacity is a must.

Ten years from now at least the trendy and the affluent would boast their all-electric Google cars, wondering how have they lived before without them. After all, they will allow driving driverless along Los Angeles’ Route 5 while checking online portfolios and Facebook.

And electric cars will be a blessing to over-polluted cities like Beijing. Sure, there will be also a status-symbol sex appeal to an electric Google car , and Larry David would shamelessly advertise it on the 2024 season of “Curb Your Enthusiasm.” Yet, such cars will be a blessing to many millions of the elderly and the disabled, if they can afford them.

Finally, the economically sensible hydrogen fuel cell powered car , the Moby Dick of the automotive industry. Again, it is the cross-section of technology and economics which stands in the way. Maybe it will be German auto makers, working with their naval propulsion engineers who can give us a competitive fuel cell car which will not break the bank. Or maybe these will be the Japanese, like Honda, who have sunk hundreds of millions of dollars in their fuel cell R&D.

Thus, geeky hybrids and EVs are definitely out, and sustainably powered, economically competitive “new technologies” are in.

We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines . Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.

John, the Volt is an electric car with a gasoline backup.  It’s all electric for local driving, yet has the range of a normal gasoline car and costs half of a fully loaded Tesla model S.

ZAQ, it doesn’t really matter what technology you pick, ANY technology car can be made MORE efficient by making it an electric hybrid.  Just as the electric hybrid made the gasoline engine so much more efficient in a Prius, it would likewise make a CNG+Hydrogen, Fuel Cell, or cow-dung burning engine similarly more efficient.  It’s not an either/or choice.  Understand the simple concept that you need an electric motor/generator to RECOVER energy on a downhill and from braking.  You can’t do that with a gasoline engine, CNG engine, cow-dung burning engine, etc.

A Fuel Cell car comes the closest to the concept already because a fuel cell car basically already IS an electric car.

This is a very simplified version of events. Please see the film Gasland before being in support of super polluting gas fracking that is causing cancer for kids and polluting water supplies. Thank you.

Well , well ….enough of electric things …lets push the gas pedal again…… CNG+Hydrogen blend is going to produce enough power that modern locomotive as well as the public sport utility vehicles will also be running soon.

Jaguar with the wish of design the air craft gas turbine technology will soon be seen on the roads ………It s proven fact and inevitable natural support for developing nations of south east asia with millions of cars every day on the roads and their nations motor ways.

I do not understand this claim of a “range” of 300 miles. Is it 300 miles with the heater on or the air conditioner?  Is it 300 miles even if the first 20 involves bumper-to bumper traffic because that routine commute to work is interrupted by an overturned semi and it takes two hours to get to work? And the outside temperature is 15 degrees F?  Gasoline engines seem to have range and duration that electric motors do not have. Also, a gasoline engine could have the same range, but not the same problem. Running low on gasoline is a problem that takes only a five-minute stop at a gas station.

The Experts are a group of energy thinkers who weigh in on the latest debates in The Journal Report.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
