
Variety reports that according to “sources familiar with pact,” Google’s YouTube has reached a deal to acquire the video game streaming platform Twitch for more than $1 billion.

Twitch’s PR Director said on Twitter that “Twitch doesn’t comment on rumors.” Google hasn’t made an official statement yet either, but the report claims that the deal should be announced soon.

According to Variety, Google is preparing for U.S. regulators to challenge the acquisition. Given that YouTube is already the most popular platform for internet videos, the Justice Department could see the acquisition as anticompetitive in the online video market.

In February, we reported that Twitch ranked fourth in peak internet traffic in the U.S. , which put it ahead of Valve, Facebook, Hulu, and other huge internet companies. It accounted for 1.8 percent of peak internet traffic. Google, by comparison, came in second with 22 percent, right behind Netflix with 32 percent.

Emanuel Maiberg is a freelance writer. You can follow him on Twitter @emanuelmaiberg and Google+ .

Google even f**ked up the comment section on YouTube. No limited characters, and a bull$hit flagging system where people can abuse to take away other's right to post a comment to the public.

don't do it twitch! don't sell your soul to the devil!

Great so Google wants to ruin everything right? Just amazing im so sick of Google and their Google+.

bet that you have to have Google+ to chat or even to see a stream and maybe more commercial.

"YouTube to buy Twitch for $1 billion -- report Is Google trying to buy the biggest video game streaming platform?"

Misleading headline. Nice bait and click.

Well I think it could be a good thing. Twitch is run by a bunch of jokers. They're good people but that site needs a serious performance upgrade.

Google is becoming to the internet what EA is to gaming...a cancer that ruins everything it touches.

This is the worst thing that could possibly happen to twitch. With  the mess and complete shit google have made youtube, it will destroy  twitch this because of all the blanket copywrite software that google  employ with youtube I think it will destroy broadcasts. Their only doing  this because twitch has been so dominate over the past year for stream  broadcasts and now game developers are on board where many of them (like  epic games) are using twitch to communicate to their fanbase that "now"  they decide they need to do something about it before it destroys the  revenue they used to get from youtube.

Its going to  become a fucking mess with google+ shit integration and the interface is  going to change, its just a big NO NO from twitch to do this stupid move............ I hope they don't go through with this.... With consoles now with twitch integrated into the new consoles its going to get more n more popular and generate more money, really stupid if they sell it now! at this point in time.

Even though I like Google because of all what they provide to us but I don't accept these kind of stuff because it will turn out to be one man show which I hate to see,I like to see competitors and new ideas from other company's not just Google.

Wonder how long before they force G+ on that too.

I give it a week.

R.I.P Twitch. Google has become the cancer of the internet.

Get used to it.

@LilRoss2k3  What has Google "ruined"?  Be specific and leave out the childish emotion.

@CyrenII  I knew exactly what that was going to be before I clicked it, haha.

I don't see why you are so surprised.

The Overlords don't want the rabble to be able to communicate or live freely.

At least not without their approval.

They will just buy everything and impose their own rules to it.

Get used to it.

It's going to continue until us, the rabble, do something about it.

Getting a dailymotion account won't help.  Running from service to service won't help.

They will just buy it, and then you are screwed.

The answer should be obvious.

I have seen very little in the way of resistance to it.

It's not what they want to provide you.

It's what they want to take away from you and restrict you from.

But of course, that's all just conspiracy, and Google would never have any nefarious intentions, because that is just scientifically impossible.

@Deaho Once Google started earning the majority of its profits from Data-mining I lost interest in the company. Only disclosed if you can translate Legalese in the Software EULAs. Not even seasoned attorneys can understand those things and I work for a Law Firm.

@alzarthedruid  Well, after they own it, it might take a little while due to implementation, but I'm willing to bet that they are already working on it, and it will be in place as soon as it's ready...I'd really give it a day or 2...a week means they are working too slow.

Then again, G+ is actually pretty cool. I find it far superior to the other offerings, it's just that no one uses it (which also might be the reason why I like it).

@NoahRoalson No, its dumb commenters that are the cancer of the internet.

@amaneuvering Right like they wouldn't turn it into an xbox shitshow, with PS4 getting the microshaft.

@amaneuvering  It would be the same situation with different logo's.

@youmadd Do you seriously believe Google hasn't ruined Youtube at all? It used to be more of a social/video hosting site (you have to remember the layout before Panda). Now YT is just a place for videos with how the current layout looks, it just made the site very boring. Not to mention all of the copyright ID claims most of which are fake.

The bugs and glitches and the stupid ads everywhere (thank god for adblock). Not to mention forcing use to their stupid lame G+. Seriously either your a fanboy for Google or you just don't care.

@McGregor   @alzarthedruid  It probably would have been better off if they didn't shove it down every single YouTube users throat.

Humanity really does need major surgery to rectify that.

Look, I know you're angry because I'm right and I have your number, but don't be so full of rage.

Besides, ignorance is bliss, and that means you'll always be happy.

Now, don't cry.  There, There.

@TheWatcher000   @pyro1245   @CyrenII  oh please.... you don't know anything about me or my motives. Nothing is infallible. Go spout your pretentious nonsense elsewhere.

Ah, another tumor joins the discussion.
