
The Samsung Galaxy Alpha has finally been unveiled by the South Korean mobile giant, touting a fancy metal frame, super slim design and some iPhone 6 -worrying specs.

We've had somewhat of a bumpy ride in the lead up to the Galaxy Alpha, with the handset also being tipped as the Galaxy S5 Prime and Galaxy F, as well as some confusion between it and the supercharged, QHD toting Galaxy S5 LTE-A in Korea.

It's design which is the main thrust for the Galaxy Alpha, after the Samsung Galaxy S5 failed to match the likes of the HTC One M8 , Sony Xperia Z2 or iPhone 5S in terms of build quality and premium appeal - with the style of the new handset being hammered home in Samsung's messaging.

So without further ado, here's everything you need to know regarding the Samsung Galaxy Alpha.

The Samsung Galaxy Alpha release date has been confirmed for September 12 (in the UK at least), which should get it on the market just days after Apple's potential iPhone 6 announcement.

It will be available in five colors - Charcoal Black, Dazzling White, Frosted Gold, Sleek Silver and Scuba Blue - but there's currently no official word on price.

We'll kick off our in-depth look at the Samsung Galaxy Alpha with its design - which is the main point Samsung wants to talk about.

At just 6.7mm the Galaxy Alpha is stupendously thin - beating both its bigger brother the Galaxy S5 (8.1mm) and the iPhone 5S (7.6mm) comfortably.

There's a metal band which runs round the circumference of the handset, in a similar way to that of the iPhone 5S, however Samsung hasn't totally ditched its beloved polycarbonate, with a dimpled layer slapped on the back of the handset.

It's a metal-plastic combo which we've already seen on the Lumia 930 , and while it may not please those who love unibody metal, it should make the Galaxy Alpha feel a lot more premium than the Galaxy S5 and Galaxy S5 Mini.

Alongside the camera lens on the back of the Galaxy Alpha is a flash, and just below that a heart rate monitor. It links to Samsung's S Health app on the phone, allowing you to keep track of your fitness - although as we found on the S5 it's not the most convenient of places for the monitor. It works much better on a fitness band or smartwatch.

The iconic Samsung home key persists on the front of the handset, while the generally squarer design of the handset as a whole reminds us a little of the Samsung Galaxy S2 .

Hidden beneath that home key is Samsung's new fingerprint scanner which debuted on the Galaxy S5, allowing you to secure and unlock the Galaxy Alpha with the swipe of your forefinger (or any other digit you wish to use).

In terms of size the Galaxy Alpha measures 132.4 x 65.5 x 6.7mm and tips the scales at just 115g - making it very close to the dimensions and weight of the Galaxy S2.

Some rumors suggested that the Samsung Galaxy Alpha would arrive with a QHD resolution display, but they clashed with other reports claiming it would sport a lowly 720p offering - unfortunately the latter claims have turned out to be correct.

The Galaxy Alpha comes with a 4.7-inch Super AMOLED screen and boasts a resolution of 1280 x 720. That gives the Alpha a pixel density of just 313ppi, lower than the 640 x 1136 iPhone 5S, and obviously no wear near the Galaxy S5, One M8 and co.

Colors will still pop on the Galaxy Alpha thank to the Super AMOLED technology, but considering the low cost Moto G sports a 4.5-inch 720p display this offering from Samsung is hardly dazzling.

Sign up to receive our free weekly newsletter with the week's hottest news, reviews and offers.

Future is AOP and PPA Consumer Digital Publisher of the Year.
