
Senior vice president of Android, Chrome and Apps at Google, Sundar Pichai, took to the company’s social media platform, Google+, to congratulate the search giant’s email app, Gmail, on its one billionth install on Android devices .

It makes Gmail the first app to cross the billion installs mark on the Android operating system with Google Play Services the only other item available form the Play Store with more downloads however it is pre-loaded on any device with Android 2.2 or above.

The number is not simply a rolling counter for the number of times the Gmail app has been downloaded either, it represents the amount of unique accounts that have downloaded the app.

Unlike many news sites, we don’t necessarily proclaim that our reporting will always be unbiased, although we do maintain that most of the time it is. We do, however, take every effort to ensure that our reporting is accurate and fair to all sides in a story.

Our writers’ bios are all over here . It’s a team of rather unparalleled experience and enthusiasm in every field.

And if you’re really old school, call us on 011 023 8005.

You can contact us via this form , and we’ll be updating with PGP and secure details soon.

htxt .africa is South Africa’s newest and most exciting tech blog, covering everything from the top end of government IT investment and spending down to maker culture, hackspaces and – well, generally – fun. We cover far more of the latter than the former, in fact, and aim to make this the number one community for genuinely interesting stuff that’s coming from South Africa and the rest of the continent.

We love games, 3D printers, start-ups and innovative apps that will save the world. We believe that all across the continent, tech is making a difference to people’s lives in ways that are revolutionising living and working. htxt.africa was born of the absolute certainty that there’s a tremendous amount of stuff that’s going on, and no-one is covering this stuff with the care, attention and enthusiasm that it deserves.

You can read all about us over here .

No wildebeest were harmed in the making of this website.
