
Oppositionists in Thailand are starting a new large-scale action on Monday, the aim of which is to dismiss the current government. The action is expected to last for a week and comprise street rallies and strikes. Protesters’ leader Suthep Thaugsuban said that special mobile brigades were set up, and from Monday on they would be "persecuting" the acting Prime Minister Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan and the other ministers as well. The opposition demands that the government resigns immediately.

In this case, the Thai Senate, the protesters believe, would be able to use its constitutional right to appoint a 'neutral' prime minister, who would carry out massive political reforms in the country, as the opposition demands.

Thai media report with reference to sources in the upper house of the country’s parliament that "senators have completed for 80% the preparations for the appointment of a 'neutral prime minister'".

A meeting between Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan and lawmakers, who will discuss possible ways out of the political crisis, is scheduled for Monday.

However, the acting prime minister has warned his counterparts that he wouldn’t make any steps contradicting the Constitution of Thailand. The acting government insists that the only way to change the authorities is through national elections. The opposition that has not won the elections for almost 20 years refuses to vote.

From May 22, employees of state enterprises are set to start a strike to increase pressure on the Cabinet. Thaugsuban has concluded a relevant agreement with labor unions’ leaders on Sunday.

The head of the opposition, accused by the authorities of treason, pledges to stop street rallies by May 27, if up to 1 million people don’t take to the streets of Bangkok. He added that he was ready to surrender to the police in case his protest actions fail.

"We cannot afford to go on with protests any longer, otherwise the country will suffer serious losses," he stated.

Thailand's army chief warned Thursday that the military may "use force" if political violence escalates in a six-month crisis which has left 28 people dead and hundreds wounded. "If violence continues the military may need to come out... to restore peace and order," General Prayut Chan-O-Cha said in rare official statement, adding his troops "may need to use force to resolve the situation".

Thailand's army chief warned Thursday that the military may "use force" if political violence escalates in a six-month crisis which has left 28 people dead and hundreds wounded.

"I want to warn every group - especially those who use violence and war weapons against innocent civilians - to stop now because if the violence continues the military may be needed to come out... to restore peace and order," General Prayut Chan-O-Cha said in rare official statement.

He added his troops "may need to use force to resolve the situation" if it escalates, warning of "decisive measures" if civilians are hurt.

His comments come after three people died and more than 20 others were wounded early Thursday in a gun and grenade attack on an anti-government protest camp in Bangkok's historic heart.

Fears of civil conflict are also mounting, with rival groups of supporters massed in or around Bangkok.

Thailand's military has staged 18 successful or attempted coups since 1932, and supporters of the battered government say they fear it may act again as the political turmoil rumbles on.

In 2010, the military led a crackdown on pro-government "Red Shirts" gathered in Bangkok that left scores dead, hundreds wounded and parts of the city's commercial centre in flames.

Red Shirt leaders have warned of an imminent military coup in the ongoing crisis, while anti-government protesters have repeatedly urged the military to step in.

The army has been at pains to stay neutral in public during the current round of political turmoil.

Anti-government demonstrators want an appointed premier to replace the caretaker government which has limped on since Premier Yingluck Shinawatra was booted out of office by a court last week.

"This time the problem is complicated and has several dimensions," Prayut added in his statement.

Thailand has been politically split since 2006 when Yingluck's older brother Thaksin was ousted by a bloodless military coup.

All rights reserved.
