
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Zoom in on this story. Explore all there is to know.

Google is honouring the iconic Rubik's Cube on its 40th birthday by allowing users to try to solve a virtual cube .

In traditional Google Doodle fashion – the search company chooses important dates to celebrate with special drawings and links – the honour is interactive.

The corners of the cube can be twisted and turned using your mouse, allowing you to have all the faces match a single colour. Eventually perhaps.

Invented by Hungarian sculptor and professor of architecture Erno Rubik, it is believed that 350 million cubes were sold as of January 2009, making it the world's top-selling puzzle game and toy.

The current world record for single time on a Rubik's Cube was set by Dutchman Mats Valk in March 2013 with a time of 5.55 seconds.

My best time is 15 seconds but I use telekinesis which is a bit slower.

Still trying to finish after receiving my first Rubik's cube back in 1981...That is if you don't count the time it took me as a kid to peel all the stickers off and put them back on. Getting those suckers straight was a challenge in itself!

17 minutes! But that was 20 years ago!

40 years and counting.

I was able to do it in 90 seconds.

there is a small book you can buy which teaches you the formulae you can use to solve it.

takes a lot of practice but it can be done if you learn the formulae.

Dunno, but I sure remember buying one when they first come out. Caught up with my elder brother was fixated and wouldn't stop till he got it.

Everyone seemed to have one, it was huge.

After finishing my HSC, my dad took me on a holiday to Mauritius. Flying over, I was seated next  to a young boy, 7-8 years old, mucking about on his Rubik's cube, with no more than a few positions correct.

When he fell asleep, I completed the cube for him. That was 33 years ago, and I will never in my life forget the look on the boy's fact when he woke up and saw that the Rubik's cube fairy had come to visit.

Back in 1980-1, I could do it in about 5-10 minutes after I bought the book that showed you how to do it and I had practised for a while. How people doing it in less than a minute is beyond my comprehension.

I won $40 for third place in a Rubiks competition back in the eighties. I'm not one of those who can see the solution, just one who can still remember the series of possible moves.

90 seconds. I took it to school in its pristine form in 1984 and a kid mixed it up (I know, what cheek!) My "mates" threatened to beat him up unless he bought me the answer book, which I promptly learned by heart (I'm a bit...um...Rainman). Spent the next two months of lunchtimes responding to the queues of school kids lined up for me to return their cubes to the original. I've never been as popular, before or since!
