
NEW YORK, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --  Newmark Grubb Knight Frank has added 50 senior-level advisors in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru, while augmenting its capabilities within the Americas as the global economic recovery takes hold, CEO Barry Gosin announced.

"The economies of these rapidly developing South American countries are seeing organic growth in energy, financial services, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, mining and other burgeoning industries, and are attracting intensive investment from outside the region," said Mr. Gosin. "As NGKF clients increasingly seek out strategic opportunities in Latin America, we continue to boost our presence with the premier real estate advisors in the major markets. These additional executives have amassed an impressive record of success in executing the highest caliber of service on the global stage, and will be the force behind growing NGKF's platform in South America."

Seasoned top-level executives heading the offices are: Domingo Speranza, president of Newmark Grubb BACRE in Argentina; Marina Cury, president of Newmark Grubb Brazil; Camilo Fonnegra, president of Newmark Grubb Fonnegra Gerlein in Colombia; and, Manuel Ahumada and Jorge Didyk, managing directors of Newmark Grubb Contempora Servicios Inmobiliarios in Santiago, Chile and Lima, Peru, respectively.

According to Milton Chacon, NGKF regional manager for Latin America, their extensive resume of global clients has included industry heavyweights such as ExxonMobil, IBM, Johnson & Johnson, Morgan Stanley, Unilever, Sony, Avon and Nokia, along with major landlords like Hines and Brookfield.

"We've added substantial resources across our global platform to advise clients every step of the way," said Mr. Chacon. "From valuation, appraisal and acquisitions to consulting, site selection, project construction and property management, our broader LatAm coverage is strengthened by this deep bench of stellar professionals."

"NGKF seeks out only the top producers for growth and collaboration, as we have done in carefully selecting these South American executives," Mr. Gosin says. "Attracting the best people in the business yields creativity and superior client service, and our consistency in delivering those results, across property types and markets, is the chief reason we have grown to become one of the leading and most advanced of the global real estate firms."

About Newmark Grubb Knight FrankNewmark Grubb Knight Frank is one of the world's leading commercial real estate advisory firms. Together with London-based partner Knight Frank and independently-owned offices, NGKF's 12,000 professionals operate from more than 320 offices in established and emerging property markets on five continents.

With roots dating back to 1929, NGKF's strong foundation makes it one of the most trusted names in commercial real estate. NGKF's full-service platform comprises BGC's real estate services segment, offering commercial real estate tenants, landlords, investors and developers a wide range of services including leasing; capital markets services, including investment sales, debt placement, appraisal, and valuation services; commercial mortgage brokerage services; as well as corporate advisory services, consulting, project and development management, and property and corporate facilities management services. For further information, visit www.ngkf.com .

NGKF is a part of BGC Partners, Inc. BGCP, -0.26% a leading global brokerage company primarily servicing the wholesale financial and real estate markets. For further information, visit www.bgcpartners.com .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
