
They were striking images which supposedly showed how unsold cars were being dumped in huge numbers across the UK and rest of the world.

A collection of pictures emerged recently which showed thousands of abandoned cars lined up on a variety of runways and car parks.

Places which supposedly kept these brand-new, unsold cars included Sheerness in Kent, Swindon and the Nissan test track in Sunderland.

An article published by Zero Hedge.com also showed sites in the Port of Baltimore, US, a runway near St Petersburg in Russia and a car park in Spain.

But, as reported by the website Jalopnik.com, not everything was as it seemed.

The article suggested that the cars would rot if they were not driven and cared for soon.

It implied that millions of cars around the world would go to waste in these huge car parks.

However, that is not necessarily the case.

Old cars which have been idol for a long time can often be used again when given a new battery and little bit of attention.

The photos are indeed very striking.

But take a closer look and it is clear that some of them are old.

They show a number of Honda Accords as well as Dodge Durangos which were not made recently.

Many of the images were taken from Google Maps.

However, this does not mean that they are recent satellite images.

The pictures included in the article suggested that all the cars would be left to rot.

However, car makers do actually stock cars in bulk in ports around the world.

They make an estimate of the number of cars they think they will sell. They are then taken to a port before being shipped around the world.

Once in the country of choice, they can also be left in ports for some time before they are sent to car dealerships.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
