
Libya 's fragile government faced a spreading armed rebellion on Monday when an air force base in the east of the country joined up with a renegade former general who is pledged to fighting Islamist militants.

Fears of a confrontation between rival groups mounted when the commander of the Tobruk air base announced he was putting it under the command of Khalifa Hiftar, a US-linked figure said to have been behind an attack on the parliament in Tripoli during weekend fighting which left about 80 people dead and 160 injured.

Most of the casualties were in Benghazi, Libya's second city, where Hiftar's men attacked Ansar al-Sharia, a fundamentalist organisation that has been designated by the US as a terrorist group.

The former general, who defected to the US in the 1980s, took part in the Nato-backed uprising against former president Muammar Gaddafi in 2011, but says the congress (parliament) in Tripoli lacks legitimacy. He has insisted he is not trying overthrow the government but to fight terrorists.

Residents described Tripoli as tense but calm on Monday but Saudi Arabia said it was closing its embassy, Afriqiyah airlines cancelled its London to Tripoli flights, Tunisia and Algeria announced they were sending reinforcements to their borders with Libya, Algeria recalled oil workers on security grounds, and Turkey closed its consulate in Benghazi.

Libya has been in a state of turmoil for months, with armed groups compounding the problems of a government struggling to acquire legitimacy and impose its authority. A planned new constitution remains unwritten and the country has had three prime ministers since March. Little progress has been made on security, democracy or economic recovery.

The gunmen who attacked the parliament belonged to brigades based in the western Zintan area, who are known for their opposition to Islamist groups.

Hiftar sits at the head of a loose coalition of tribal and army forces united by little more than opposition to the Islamist-led congress. He enjoys solid support in the eastern province of Cyrenaica and in the west, both crucial because these are the oil-producing areas that have mounted a 10-month oil blockade that has strangled state finances.

Months of behind-the-scenes negotiation with tribal militias and the army paved the way for his coordinated operation by army and air force units against Islamist militias in Benghazi and the storming of congress by Zintan's militias.

Growing momentum for Hiftar may be privately welcomed by the government, which on Monday asked parliament to suspend its work until the next general election after an impending vote on the 2014 budget  and to rerun the controversial election of a new premier who is deemed favourable to the Islamists.The crisis has exposed the country's deep divisions but it is hard to predict what will happen next. "When Gaddafi fell, the different militias did not share a vision of how the country should evolve," Prof Youcef Bouandel of Qatar Univeristy told Al-Jazeera TV. "All the signs are that it is a failed state. The signs are that the violence is going to continue."

Catherine Ashton, the EU's foreign policy chief, expressed concern about the "continuing deterioration" and the European Council for Foreign Relations warned: "With reliance on Russian energy supplies now in question across Europe, the EU cannot afford to have a failed state crucial to energy security and to stemming illegal trafficking 350 km south of Malta and Lampedusa."

Washington has viewed the growing power of Islamists in Libya with alarm, especially the kidnapping of the Jordanian ambassador by gunmen in Tripoli, and his release in return for Jordan freeing a Libyan in jail on terrorism offences.

The CIA and Pentagon are likely to welcome Hiftar's intervention, and drones have been much in evidence in Libya's skies this past week. But the state department is wary of supporting Hiftar if he follows the Egyptian model of moving away from democracy by replacing an Islamist government with military dictatorship.

Western governments have been pushing Islamists and the opposition to agree to fresh elections. "Elections, elections elections," said one Tripoli-based diplomat. "Both sides are nervous of the other, the key is elections."

Opinion polls predict a landslide victory for Mahmoud Jibril, the tribal figurehead and former rebel prime minister, who is an ally of Hiftar and living in self-imposed exile in Abu Dhabi. This in turn worries the Muslim Brotherhood's Justice and Construction party, which leads congress, with the most authoritative poll giving them just 14% to Jibril's 70%. They fear losing elections would be followed by an Egypt-style purge.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.

The end for Muammar Gaddafi when it came, was ignominious and violent. From Tripoli to Benghazi, Libya is the gripping story of the overthrow and its aftermath.
