
Barely two months later, without warning or, to this day, explanation, Bostock fired Bartz in a telephone conversation that lasted less than three minutes.

Like with Bartz, the full story about what led to the sudden and unceremonious dumping of New York Times executive editor Jill Abramson is still a puzzle, despite the news media unearthing conflicting accounts of escalating tensions over fair pay (which New York Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr. has denied), personality clashes and management style.

But like Bartz, Abramson had been praised by none other than Times chief executive Mark Thompson as recently as April 28, just days before her May 9 dismissal. Ken Auletta, writing in the New Yorker, published an e-mail reportedly from Thompson to Abramson urging her to stay on for several more years.

To be fair, leaders throughout the ages, regardless of their gender, have been ousted by disgruntled boards, unhappy bosses, palace coups, revolutions and mutinies. But Bartz and Abramson are far from alone as women leaders given the boot before their time.

In fact, a new report on the fate of women CEOs at the top 2,500 companies over the past decade shows that not only are women as rare as pandas in the upper ranks – barely 3 percent of all CEOs — but that women’s tenures tend to be shorter and rockier than men’s . And women CEOs are forced out of office at a statistically significant higher rate than men — 38 percent to 27.

Gary Neilson, a consultant with Strategy& (formerly Booz & Co.), and one of the report authors, said that may be because more women CEOs are brought in from the outside, which is inherently riskier. They don’t have the internal networks or know the company culture as intimately, which can lead to what he called “organ rejection.” And outsiders are typically brought in to work magic and turn around a sagging operation.

Bartz was brought in to turn around Yahoo as an outsider. But Abramson, also given the weighty task of turning around a flagging print empire in an increasingly digital age, was such an insider at the New York Times that she had a “T” tattooed on her back to honor the institution that so shaped her.

That, Carol Bartz said, is the tried and true, yet old, tired and often unfair “women’s temperament argument.” Bartz was often criticized for her brusque manner and her salty tongue.

Anne-Marie Slaughter, former top State Department official and current president of the New America Foundation, said the double standard for male and female leaders remains rampant.

Clearly, something is not working. And we’re only hurting ourselves. Neilson agrees.

Bartz, who now sits on the board of Cicsco, another high-tech firm, attributes her firing, in part, to a board that wanted “fairy dust” faster than she told them she could produce it.

Although Neilson in his report projects that by 2040, nearly one-third of all CEOs will be women, Bartz isn’t so sure.

“Running shoes?” I asked.

Brigid Schulte writes about work-life issues and poverty, seeking to understand what it takes to live The Good Life across race, class and gender.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
