
Chairman Mao once insisted that power came out of the barrel of a gun. He was wrong. These days, it actually comes out the back of a TEU cargo container. Despite their very own phenomenal international economic success and resulting helter-skelter domestic development, the Chinese appear blind to the lesson.

The attacks by rioters on Chinese-owned factories in Vietnam have seen the rapid evacuation of more than 30,000 Chinese nationals. The assaults, because they also targeted Taiwanese, South Korean and Japanese plants, may not have been organized officially. Nevertheless the authorities appear to have done little at first to stop the destructive protest triggered by the appearance of a Chinese oil exploration rig on the disputed Paracel Islands. Leaving aside the serious damage that these riots could do to Vietnam’s position as a major outsourcer, a danger appreciated by the Hanoi government which has since clamped down on further protest, the violence demonstrates the risky new use to which China is putting its economic ascendency.

In modern times, few of history’s superpower have been able to project both economic and military hegemony. Japan’s stunning post-war economic growth achieved the wealth and prosperity that its savage 1930s military adventurism, not least in China, failed to attain. The Soviet Union’s undoubted military power rested on economic foundations of sawdust and thus eventually collapsed. Only the Americans have been able to exercise both economic and military power, albeit with varying degrees of success. And America’s wars, arguably uniquely, have been very good for its economy, in part because these destructive conflicts have never reached its homeland.

China’s substantial armed forces continue to grow, clearly in Beijing’s view, equipping it for a strong regional role that will enable it to challenge the Asia-Pacific’s Pax Americana. But is military confrontation really the best policy? There may even be some commanders in the People’s Liberation Army who doubt it, given the extensive and profitable investments that the PLA itself has in the Chinese economy.

It is widely assumed that Beijing’s claims on large maritime areas are about access to oil and gas reserves. There seems little better reason for confronting so many of its neighbors, including Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Japan. Yet this approach seems utterly illogical.

China’s demand for natural resources appears insatiable. This is because of its stellar economic performance. The global markets for its goods include the very neighboring states that it is now challenging over pieces of ocean. How much more sensible to find a peaceful negotiated or arbitrated settlement to rival claims? If there is indeed oil and gas in some or all of these disputed locations, China will still get the supplies it needs, because it is the most obvious large-scale export customer.

All that is being achieved by the policy of regional confrontation is the sowing of suspicion and fear. Beijing’s aggressive stance is also driving its neighbors back into the arms of Washington. It is hard to think of a more counterproductive and muddle-headed approach. And ironically it was Chinese mobs who initiated this pointless round of destructive protests. In their dispute with Japan over uninhabited islands, what looked very much like officially-sponsored and violent demonstrations targeted Japanese commercial enterprises in China. This forced Japanese nationals to flee.

It is impossible to believe that Beijing is ready to abandon the economic power and prestige it has won as a trading nation by becoming an aggressive military power. But this is how it is beginning to look.

- We call on all our readers and visitors to stay away from comments that are offensive or meaningful to a person or entity in any way.
