
CHICAGO, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- While many of us associate hearing aids with our grandfather sitting in a rocking chair trying to adjust the sound levels, today's high-tech hearing aids are wireless, virtually undetectable and now for the first time, can be controlled right through your iPhone.

Beltone, one of the world's largest manufacturers of hearing devices , recently announced the first-ever 'Made for iPhone' hearing aid – Beltone First.  The ground-breaking device with iPhone capabilities allows consumers to receive clear, clean sound streamed directly from an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch.

"Our new Beltone First hearing aids are a game changer for a growing number of baby boomers who have been looking for a hearing aid that truly meets their on-the-go lifestyle needs," said Todd Murray, President of Beltone. "These new iPhone compatible hearing aids definitely add a 'cool factor' that hopefully encourages those who've avoided wearing hearing aids in the past to finally make the move!"

Beltone First hearing aids wirelessly communicate with each other to self-adjust as a person's surroundings change.

The free Beltone HearPlus™ app recognizes the places an individual regularly visits and automatically applies the right settings. "Find My Hearing Aid" locates misplaced devices.

Provide unprecedented sound quality and connection between the iPhone and the hearing aid via Beltone's award-winning, third generation 2.4 GHz technology.

Beltone First user Michael Freilinger, age 52, credits the new device with changing his life, both personally and professionally.

"Beltone First has increased my capacity to hear in all environments, especially in situations where background noise is prevalent," Freilinger said. "The unique features allow me to discreetly change the volume of my hearing aids without drawing attention to it. From Bluetooth and live streaming capabilities to using my iPhone as a microphone when needed, these hearing aids are unlike any of the others I have tried in the past."

May is Better Hearing and Speech MonthThe number of Americans with hearing loss has doubled over the past 30 years. People are encouraged to have their hearing tested through Better Hearing and Speech Month in May. Hearing aids help over 90 percent of hearing losses, and first-time hearing aid users report satisfaction ratings exceeding 90 percent.

About BeltoneFounded in 1940, Chicago-based Beltone is part of the GN Hearing Care Group, utilizing advanced technology to produce hearing aids sold in the United States, Canada and over 50 countries worldwide. In addition to providing outstanding service and support for its U.S. hearing care network operating in over 1,500 offices in North America, Beltone remains the most trusted brand for quality products and care among its patients and adults aged 50 and older. Visit Beltone at www.beltone.com .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
