
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

WICCOPEE – About 150 to 200 IBM technical employees based at the semiconductor plant here will be dispatched to work at a partner company, GlobalFoundries, at its growing plant in Saratoga County, the Poughkeepsie Journal has exclusively learned.

Travis Bullard, a spokesman for GlobalFoundries, said the arrangement is temporary, and is expected to run for eight months.

The move occurs as speculation continues about whether GlobalFoundries will buy some of IBM's chip business. Sources quoted anonymously in the Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal said IBM is shopping for a buyer and GlobalFoundries is the leading candidate. There has been no comment from either company.

But analysts say that given the long partnership of the two companies, the current move fits into a model of increased connection between IBM, a diversified computer services and technology company, and GlobalFoundries, an expanding specialist in the business of making microchips. It has several "fabs," or chip fabricating plants, around the world.

Bullard said GlobalFoundries has "set up a new contractor service agreement with IBM," under which the workers will remain IBM employees but will work on GlobalFoundries projects. "We've actually done these in the past with IBM on specific projects," he said. "This one is a new one that will allow up to approximately 150 to 200 experienced technical folks that will be able to assist us as we work to ramp our production at our Fab8 facility."

The chip plant, which began making microchips in January 2012, employs about 2,200 of its staff at the plant in the Town of Malta, Bullard said. Hiring is ongoing and a new Technology Development Center is being built to add research and development capabilities.

IBMers at the East Fishkill facility were advised of the pending move Thursday, with individuals to be told soon if they're affected, according to sources in a position to know.

Bullard said the work done by the visiting IBMers will cover both IBM's own chip orders being produced there as well as those of other customers.

"I'm glad to hear this is happening," said Richard Doherty, research director for Envisioneering Group in Seaford, Nassau County. It may be "professional care and concern for full work, if there isn't full work at Fishkill," he said.

"IBM is going to be using GlobalFoundries in Malta as a foundry going forward," said G. Dan Hutcheson of VLSI Research in San Jose, Calif., "and the Fishkill facility is getting long in the tooth. It's now become a fairly old fab. Fabs don't last forever. They do begin to age."

Because GlobalFoundries is paying IBM as a contractor, it offers a fiscal benefit in that it covers IBM's costs for those employees. They would still be part of the asset package that IBM is reportedly trying to sell. And they are not being laid off, which is a concern among IBMers, given the downsizing trend of recent years.

With IBM's hardware division in substantial revenue decline and overall revenues falling short of forecasts, this deal appears to offer IBM some cost relief, if only temporarily.

A former IBM manager who ran the East Fishkill plant and served 17 years at IBM was named Wednesday to head the Malta plant. Thomas Caulfield was hired as senior vice president and general manager, Global Foundries said.
