
Disney Cruise Line returns to Hawaii in fall 2015, offering two special 10-night sailings aboard the Disney Wonder.Kent Phillips. Photo courtesy of Disney Cruise Line, used with permission.

Disney Cruise Line returns to Hawaii in fall 2015, offering two special 10-night sailings aboard the Disney Wonder.Kent Phillips. Photo courtesy of Disney Cruise Line, used with permission.

On May 19, Disney Cruise Line announced its schedule for fall 2015 trips. The family cruise line will offer two sailings to Hawaii aboard the Disney Wonder . The ship also returns to West Coast, offering departures from San Diego and Galveston, Texas.

In its announcement, Disney Cruise Line (DCL) highlighted its return to the Hawaiian Islands. DCL will offer two 10-night cruises in September 2015 on the Disney Wonder.

For its first Hawaiian sailing, departing Sept. 7, the Disney Wonder will depart from Vancouver,B.C. and end at Honolulu. For the Sept. 17 sailing, the sailing ends at Vancouver. The DCL’s Hawaiian cruises also make stops at Hilo (Hawaii Island), Nawiliwili (Kauai); and Kahului (Maui) on the first sailing, and reverses the stops for the second.

During these cruises, DCL guests may take in such sights that make Hawaii such a popular travel destination. The Big Island offers waterfalls, rainforests at the Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea volcanoes. At Kauai, guests can soak up the sun the beaches or see the Waimea Canyon, sometimes called "The Grand Canyon of the Pacific."  Maui offers a range of sights and activities, from shopping and dining to the Haleakala Crater at Haleakalā National Park. And while visiting Honolulu, guests may explore Oahu through a variety of activities: visiting the beaches of Waikiki, the Dole Plantation or Pearl Harbor, for instance.

These sailings mark the second time the Disney Wonder , on of Disney’s classic ships, has taken DCL guests to Hawaii. The 2,700-passenger ship first sailed to the islands in 2012. Rates for these itineraries start at $1,650 per person, a price that reflects a standard inside stateroom and double occupancy.

DCL also announced Monday that the Disney Wonder will sail from Galveston to the Bahamas in November and December 2015, promoting DCL’s holiday season. Several seven-night cruises offer an itinerary that makes stops at Key West; Nassau, Bahamas and Disney's private island, Castaway Cay. The Nov. 6 sailing is a Western Caribbean itinerary with stops at Cozumel, Mexico; Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands and Falmouth, Jamaica.

The Disney Wonder’s Galveston itineraries for fall 2015 include two shorter trips. A six-night sailing departs on Dec. 18, 2015 and features stops Key West and Castaway Cay. A four-night sailing departs on Dec. 24, making a stop at Cozumel.

Rates for the Galveston sailing start at $948 per person for the four-night cruise, $1116 per person for the six-night cruise and $945 per person for the seven-night cruise. Again, these rates are for a standard inside stateroom and double occupancy.

DCL will also sail from San Diego for a limited time. The Disney Wonder will offer six different cruises from that port in fall 2015. Itineraries include three five-night Baja sailings (Oct. 4, 11 and 18) that make stops at Cabo San Lucas and Ensenada, Mexico. The Oct. 1 sailing is a three-night cruise that stops at Ensenada. The Disney Wonder also offers two Two-Night Weekend Getaway Cruises; these sailings depart Oct. 9 and 16, offering DCL the opportunity to enjoy the ship with days at sea.

Rates for these San Diego cruise aboard the Disney Wonder start at $404 per person for two-night cruises, $435 per person for three-night cruises and $625 per person for five-night cruises (standard inside stateroom, double occupancy).

Bookings for these Disney Cruise Line sailings open to the public on May 21, 2014. More details are available at Disney Cruise Line. Guests may also call Disney Cruise Line at 888-325-2500 or contact their travel agent.
