
The slump wiped £6.75bn off the company's value, which is now worth around £15bn less than Pfizer offered to pay last night.

AstraZeneca has stood firm today, insisting it was correct to reject the US company's 'final' proposal on the grounds it undervalued Astra, threatened its ability to bring vital drugs to market, and could have damaged Britain's science base.

Several large shareholders have gone public with their unhappiness over Astra's decision to reject Pfizer's latest offer early this morning ( full story here ).

But unions have urged shareholders to resist the lure of Pfizer's money, and to support Astra's board after it rejected the biggest ever takeover of a UK company by a foreign rival.

It would not only destabilise AstraZenca, but undermine the UK’s science and research base and put a jewel in the Britain’s manufacturing crown at risk.

AXA's Richard Marwood, who holds a 4.6% stake in Astra, said he is "very disappointed" . Another called it the biggest destruction of shareholder value ever.

Top 10 AstraZeneca investor says rejecting Pfizer "is the single biggest case of value destruction on behalf of shareholders of all time".

We are disappointed the board of AstraZeneca has rejected Pfizer’s latest offer so categorically. They should have at least engaged in a constructive conversation with Pfizer on the details of the offer to assess the opportunities that a combined entity could bring."

"There now seems little room left to manoeuvre with Pfizer having ruled out a hostile bid. We will be expressing our dissatisfaction to the AstraZeneca board over the way the bid process has been handled up to now."

...The government has tried to remain on the sidelines, having been accused of acting as a Pfizer cheerleader. David Cameron insisted that he should be neutral , while concerned for British science and jobs.

Ultimately it is for the shareholders to determine, but it is welcome the AstraZeneca board has remained resolute and sought to act in the best long-term interests of the company and its vital work in developing new life-saving drugs. Pfizer has said today that it will not seek to launch a hostile bid and must not renege on this promise.

"Where David Cameron and his government have failed to act, the next Labour government will act to introduce a strengthened public interest test to better protect Britain's science base."

In other news, Royal Bank of Scotland has welcomed its new finance director to the company by giving him almost £2m of shares, on his first day at RBS (still majority-owned by the taxpayer).

Ewen Stevenson was awarded 584,506 shares, which will be released to him over three years to buy him out of pay deals he left behind at his previous employer, Credit Suisse.

He is on an annual package worth £1.9m a year, made up of an £800,000 salary, £280,000 in pension contributions, £26,250 in benefits and £800,000 in "allowances", a vehicle used by banks to get round the EU bonus cap.

The government has refused to allow RBS to pay bonuses of 200% of salary, subjecting the bank to the full EU cap that limits them to 100% of salary. This means the maximum Stevenson will receive is £3.8m, if he meets all the targets for his bonuses.

With Pfizer's bid for AstraZeneca on the ropes tonight, investment bankers face missing out on some pretty lucrative fees.

My colleague Rupert Neate has been investigating; and found that banks, lawyers, accountants and PR firms could have shared up to £345m for advising Pfizer on the deal. That's based on the typical model where advisors receive 0.5% of a deal's value.

A top banker's share of the pie could have been several million pounds.

A senior PR executive at a different firm said Brunswick chairman Alan Parker would be "devastated" at the collapse of the deal. "The contract would have been in the high hundreds of thousands into seven figures," the PR man said.

"They will be devastated by this, it would have made up a meaningful part of the bonus – it would be the difference between getting a Ferrari or not."

"...yield a persistent increase in GDP by crowding in private investment and would also stimulate growth in the rest of the euro area."

With the May sun gently warming London today, traders in the Square Mile became a little sunnier themselves this afternoon, dragging the FTSE 100 off its earlier lows.

The blue-chip index ended the day down just 11 points, or 0.16%, at 6844.

AstraZeneca's tumble wiped 26 points off the Footsie, so it would have been an up day if Pfizer's bid hadn't, well, phizzled out.

Markets pushed off their lows in Europe and the US this afternoon, but the FTSE 100 has been unable to clamber out of negative territory while AstraZeneca is down 10%. At around 3% of the index Astra is too important to ignore, but most traders are looking beyond this one stock and are generally turning more bullish as the day goes on. Ryanair’s figures continue to provide positive tailwinds for easyJet and International Consolidated Airlines, who are both topping the leaderboard in London. Investors are apparently betting that consumers have tired of the extreme no-frills approached that once worked so well for Ryanair, and that the gradual return of affluence will cause people to trade up in their air travel choices.

As the European elections draw near, our binary market continues to show that UKIP will likely emerge ahead of all other competitors. Increased scrutiny may put the party under pressure, but it is unlikely to cause many prospective voters to shift their ground. It seems the chance to deliver a resounding blow against ‘the establishment’ is just too good to pass up.

France's CAC and Germany's DAX both rose 0.3%.

But the Milan stock market had a bad day - with Italian FTSE MIB losing 1.6%. That comes amid jitters that this week's EU elections could be a triumph for anti-European parties, which could spark new fears over the eurozone.

Trading in London is finished for the day, and AstraZeneca's shares have posted an 11.1% tumble, wiping around £6.75bn off the company's value.

Astra shares closed at £42.87, down from £48.23 on Friday.

Shareholders may be forgiven for thinking wistfully of the £55 which Pfizer offered to pay for each of their shiny shares. That valued Astra at £69bn, or around £8bn more than its value on Friday night.

A polite exchange of views, rather than a punch-up -- though - Carswell even retweeted Jackson's comment.

Please note that the higher AZN Board drive the price up, the larger the cuts will be if Pfizer does eventually buy it.

To make the numbers work, to make the deal pay, to persuade Pfizer shareholders to back the deal, Pfizer will need to make more job cuts and research savings.

So, if Pfizer does come back in six months and offer £59 per share (which AstraZeneca says would be fair) it will have serious repercussions for both company's workforce.

Business secretary Vince Cable has reiterated that the government's position is "unchanged" - it is staying on the sidelines while trying protect the national interest in R&D, manufacturing and jobs.

We are monitoring what's happening since the AstraZeneca board very firmly rejected [Pfizer's] proposal.

The (likely) failure of Pfizer's pursuit of AstraZeneca has dampened spirits in the City, where traders thought it might catalyse a new wave of merger activity.

The failure of the Pfizer-AstraZeneca deal has added to the bad feelings in markets today as a certain premium had been built into prices with the belief this mega-merger could bring about a new wave of M&A.

With the AT&T - DirecTV deal in the US pushing ahead, Europe is lacking its own role-model for future mega-deals.

As we predicted at 12.22pm , well-respected City investor Neil Woodford has offered AstraZeneca his backing, saying they were right to reject Pfizer's latest bid.

Woodford said the offer of £55 per share didn't match Astra's long-term potential - a point that the company's management have made repeatedly in recent weeks.

Neil Woodford fund manager with #AZN stake " #Pfizer long way short of something that'd persuade me to trade my belief in #AZNs LT potential"

Woodford's support is a contrast with several other shareholders ( such as AXA ) who have been voicing their disappointment today.

Shares in Pfizer have risen over 1.6% in early trading in New York, as Wall Street traders react to the news that the company's third bid for AstraZeneca has been slapped down.

Pfizer shares rose around 50 cents to $29.60, the highest level since 6 May. They've been under pressure in recent days, in anticipation that the firm would make huge, knockout bid for AstraZeneca.

AstraZeneca shares are still leading the FTSE 100 fallers, down almost 12% in London.

Conservative MP Douglas Carswell has criticised the way in which Pfizer's approach to AstraZeneca became a political football (two different parliamentary committees held hearings last week).

"Listening to the debate in Parliament, I'm very alarmed by the mood of protectionism, of what is, in effect, economic nativism. Countries that have governments that 'pick winners' become losers."

"I think it should disturb all of us that politicians, many of whom frankly couldn't run a bath, suddenly want us to believe that they know what is in the national interest and that they know what constitutes a good deal. It's absurd and it's ridiculous."

In theory, ministers could have used their public interest powers to intervene, if they felt that a Pfizer takeover of AstraZeneca would be bad for Britain. But there is confusion over exactly what powers the UK had; it appears any intervention would need the approval of Brussels too.

AstraZeneca's chairman has refused to say whether the board were united in rejecting Pfizer's latest approach.

Leif Johansson denied failing to handle the bid correctly, and added that he sees no prospect of a deal soon.

Speaking of elections, Greek politicians and citizens are digesting the results of the first round of local election voting, last weekend.

Prime minister Antonis Samaras claimed that his New Democracy party had done pretty well, after a poll in which there was no clear winner.

ND fell behind the opposition left-wing Syriza in Athens last weekend, but did better in seats outside the capital.

But a new opinion poll today also has shown Syriza has a big lead ahead of the EU polls.

Kapa Research found that Syriza have 27.4% support, followed by New Democracy with 22.7%, then the extremist Golden Dawn party with 8.7%.

To Potami (known as the "River" party) polled 8.1%, then the Communist KKE party with 6.4%, the "center-left" Olive Tree allowance on 6.2%, then Independent Greeks on 4% and Democratic Left (DIMAR) with 1.4%.

In the bond markets, Spanish and Italian government debt has weakened this morning as traders anticipate a strong showing for anti-establishment parties in this week's EU elections.

Alastair Winter, chief economist at Daniel Stewart & Co, says the elections could destabilise the EU, if parties who oppose the status quo are the big winners.

Here in the UK we face the strange prospect of the largest share of the vote going to a party of protest without practical policies and who do not always turn up to parliamentary sessions. More important will be how well the anti-EMU parties fare in France and Italy, which are quite likely to signal a new episode in the euro soap opera.

The selloff has driven up the yield (interest rate) on benchmark Italian 10-year bonds to 3.15%, from 3.06% on Friday (yields rise when prices fall). The Spanish 10-year bond is yielding around 3%, up from 2.94%.

The Wall Street Journal agrees that Pfizer cannot boost its £55 offer again (as some analysts have been speculating this morning).

Pfizer has until May 26th to make a firm offer for AstraZeneca. But, given its statements on Sunday, it can now only do so with the recommendation of Astra’s board and at a price no more than £55 a share.

The certainty and speed of Astra’s rejection makes that highly unlikely. Moreover, UK rules prohibit Pfizer from making a bid for Astra for six months, unless recommended by the target’s board. For the first three months, its “no increase” statement will still apply, meaning a deal would need to be agreed at £55 a share.

Astra’s board may hint that another £3 or £4 could have clinched a deal. That is little comfort to the U.K. company’s investors. Pfizer’s hands are tied at £55.

"I don't think this is the last roll of the dice" - Anne Richards, Chief Investment Officer, AAM believes Pfizer will return in 6 months.

Business secretary Vince Cable has warned that the UK economy is being destabilised by booming house prices.

"It is a real, real, real worry" that some people are taking out mortgages many times larger than their salaries, Cable added, according to politics editor Patrick Wintour.

Cable's comments were made last week, but have only just come to light.

Yesterday, the Bank of England governor said the housing market was the single biggest threat to Britain, and this morning Rightmove reported the average London property had risen by £80,000 so far this year.

Peter Garnry, head of equity strategy at Saxo Bank, agrees that Pfizer is unlikely to make another bid for AstraZeneca, having been rebuffed three times*.

There is rarely a fourth attempt to dance in a takeover bid so based on the developments over the weekend, the probability for a deal is now very low.

Despite Pfizer having spent a large amount of money and time, the signal seems clear from AstraZeneca's Board of Directors, UK politicians and mainstream media that this is a bad deal, and we see limited efforts from Pfizer going forward. Its shareholders will not appreciate a fourth attempt as it will inflate the valuation too much relative to deal risk.

Leading fund manager Neil Woodford, whose biggest shareholding in his £4bn portfolio is AstraZeneca, is understood to be minded to reject Pfizer's latest offer.

A formal statement from his new company, Woodford Asset Management, is expected later today.

There's no let-up in the changes at the Co-operative Group.

Reid had sat on the board for 14 years and was one of the five representatives of independent societies to have boardroom seats as a result of their 22% share holding in the Group. Another 15 seats are currently held for representatives of the regional boards whose 8m members control 78% of the Group.

Reid had first indicating his wish to leave around the start of the year but has now resigned following the unanimous decision to adopt reforms linked to the Myners proposals, which would tear up the existing boardroom structure.

Myners had ripped into the Co-op's board in his report, saying that directors were sorely lacking in the skills and experiences needed to run the company.

David Cameron has now weighed in, saying that the government remains neutral over Pfizer's bid to buy AstraZeneca, and is still talking to both companies to get the best outcome for Britain.

"This is a matter for the companies to resolve themselves".

"The government quite rightly should be neutral in this. What we should do though is always be engaged with both companies - as we have been - to try and make sure that whatever the outcome, British science, British job, British manufacturing, that they get a proper and deserved attention."

Qs asked about whether Pfizer can lodge bigger formal offer. I'm told Pfizer cannot offer more than £55 a share before 26 May deadline.

Pfizer offer needs Astra board recommendation. If that happened and Pfizer later had reason to pay more, it could but £55 is the max now.

Richard Marwood's criticism of AstraZeneca is particularly interesting, as AXA is its third-largest investor with a 4.5% stake.

Richard Marwood, of Axa tells me "very disappointed" by AZ board "not in shareholders interests" and "very hard to do a deal from here"

Well played the board of AstraZeneca. It took a position, argued the merits of a standalone strategy, and has turned down Pfizer's final offer of £55 before any weak-willed fund managers could start muttering their objections. Boards of directors are meant to display independence of mind and backbone. This is a rare occasion when one has.

It is too soon to declare this battle over definitively, but the 14% plunge in AZ's share price says Pfizer requires something extraordinary to happen to get back into the game.

"We are disappointed the board of AstraZeneca has rejected Pfizer’s latest offer so categorically. They should have at least engaged in a constructive conversation with Pfizer on the details of the offer to assess the opportunities that a combined entity could bring."

"There now seems little room left to manoeuvre with Pfizer having ruled out a hostile bid. We will be expressing our dissatisfaction to the AstraZeneca board over the way the bid process has been handled up to now."

10:52 - JUPITER FUND MANAGER ALASTAIR GUNN: "WE WILL BE EXPRESSING OUR DISSATISFACTION TO THE ASTRAZENECA BOARD OVER THE WAY THE BID PROCESS HAS BEEN HANDLED"

"Labour and others have been clear from the outset that if this potential takeover is found not to be in the best interests of British science, jobs and industry it should not proceed - so AstraZeneca's move today to reject Pfizer's final bid is welcome."

"While Labour was standing up for British jobs and British science, David Cameron and his ministers were cheerleading for a takeover bid where one of the primary motivations was financial engineering - cited by the AstraZeneca board as one of the execution risks justifying rejection of the bid.

"Ultimately it is for the shareholders to determine, but it is welcome the AstraZeneca board has remained resolute and sought to act in the best long-term interests of the company and its vital work in developing new life-saving drugs. Pfizer has said today that it will not seek to launch a hostile bid and must not renege on this promise.

"Where David Cameron and his government have failed to act, the next Labour government will act to introduce a strengthened public interest test to better protect Britain's science base."

The Unite union has urged AstraZeneca shareholders to support the board's decision, and resist the temptation for a "quick buck".

The company has a long term plan and we would urge shareholders to back the workforce and the board.

The latest offer from Pfizer still raises more questions than it answers.

It would not only destabilise AstraZenca, but undermine the UK’s science and research base and put a jewel in the Britain’s manufacturing crown at risk.

"We are extremely disappointed with the turn of events at Astra today," said one - a fund manager at a top 10 investor in AstraZeneca after the company rebuffed a raised takeover offer of £55 a share, worth around £70bn ($118bn).

"We do not think the Astra management have done a good job on behalf of shareholders. We had already urged Astra to engage in discussions with Pfizer," added the fund manager on condition of anonymity, as his firm had not authorised him to speak publicly.

A second AstraZeneca shareholder within the 40 largest investors in the company said surprise at the rejected offer was widespread among his peers.

"I thought at 55 [pounds] they’d say 'lets open the books and chat' so I think large numbers of shareholders out there will be disappointed," the second shareholder said.

Analysts at Credit Suisse reckon that Pfizer could still tweak its 'final' offer, even if Takeover Code rules mean it can't raise it.

They say Pfizer has the right to ""introduce other forms of consideration and/or vary the mix of consideration", which could mean paying a larger percentage in cash.

"We believe a further cash element would be possible and still meet the conditions of no increase in the overall price and still meet the US tax inversion rules.

The bid is now effectively in the hands of shareholders.

Savvas Neophytou of Panmure Gordon reckons there is wriggle room for Pfizer to bid more (because it has technically made a proposal, not a final offer.

This is an attractive offer. We expect shareholders to press AstraZeneca to accept this new offer but management will likely want to resist so Pfizer would need to increase its offer one last time.

In mid-morning trading the FTSE 100 is firmly in the red, down 40 points, hit by the latest twist in the AstraZeneca/Pfizer saga.

All attention is focused on AstraZeneca this morning, as the shares dive 14% following the decision of the firm to spurn Pfizer’s advance. Such a big move in a weighty stock like Astra is bound to leave the index floundering but it is merely a symptom of a wider problem, namely that the market remains directionless after the highs of last week.

Even if Pfizer does walk away, I would expect them to still stalk AstraZeneca and wait for a moment of board weakness to pounce again in the future.

So how much have AstraZeneca investors lost? By my reckoning, around £15bn.

Last night the company was valued at almost £61bn -- this morning's double-digit tumble has wiped around £6.5bn off its value.

But that's compared to Friday's closing price of £48 per share. Pfizer was offering to pay £55 (in a mixture of cash and its own shares), the equivalent of another £8.5bn.

So in total, Astra's shareholders would be some £15bn better off, on paper, if their board had accepted Pfizer's bid.

AstraZeneca shares are inching back, slightly - now down 10.8% at £43.02 each.

One of AstraZeneca's biggest shareholders has told the Guardian that the AZ board has committed the single biggest case of shareholder value destruction ever.

Top 10 AstraZeneca investor says rejecting Pfizer "is the single biggest case of value destruction on behalf of shareholders of all time".

Top 10 AstraZeneca investor says: "I think it [the bid] is closed. Personality clashes have triumphed over shareholder value creation."

Pfizer's bid to take control of AstraZeneca, which would have been the biggest ever foreign takeover of a UK firm, appears to be over.... for now at least.

Shares in AstraZeneca have tumbled 13% this morning , close to the company's value before Pfizer went public with its ambitions.

AstraZeneca told the City early this morning it had rejected Pfizer's "final" offer of £55 per share, which was made late last night.

Chairman Leif Johansson said the £69bn bid undervalued Astra, and also threatened to disrupt its pipeline of life-saving medicines.

"We have rejected Pfizer's Final Proposal because it is inadequate and would present significant risks for shareholders, while also having serious consequences for the Company, our employees and the life-sciences sector in the UK, Sweden and the US."

The Board is firm in its conviction as to the appropriate terms to recommend to shareholders."

But Johansson also revealed that AstraZeneca would have considered talking to Pfizer if it had bumped its bid up to almost £59 per share.

The opposition Labour party have welcomed Astra's decision. Shadow business minister Chuka Umunna says it is the right decision for the company and the country.

In the decision of AZ's board we see the long term overcoming the short term, fast buck mentality we need to see less of in UK business.

Astra's chairman admitted this morning that he doesn't know for sure whether Pfizer's bid is really over, but 'believes them' when they say £55/share is their final offer.

Pfizer now has very few options and is expected to walk away from the deal.

The chances of AstraZeneca remaining out of Pfizer’s hands I would now rate at 90%.

The Swedish government has been critical of Pfizer in recent weeks, saying it has a track record of aggressive cost cutting after aquisitions.

Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index , believes Pfizer will now walk away from AstraZeneca, but could 'stalk' the company and table a bid in future.

He points out that Astra's board has effectively named its price -- £59 per share -- by revealing this morning that it wanted a 10% premium to the £53.50 tabled over the weekend.

AstraZeneca have rejected Pfizer’s final offer of £55 a share with a sweetened cash incentive, however, in doing so the board of AstraZeneca have also highlighted the price they would be willing to do business, £59 a share.

This is a quite staggering level, which would represent a near 60% premium on AstraZeneca’s shares price before rumours first emerged of Pfizer’s imminent bid. Pfizer now has very few options and is expected to walk away from the deal.

The chances of AstraZeneca remaining out of Pfizer’s hands I would now rate at 90%.

The slump in Astra's share price this morning suggests many other analysts agree.

Even if Pfizer does walk away, I would expect them to still stalk AstraZeneca and wait for a moment of board weakness to pounce again in the future.

If Pfizer does walk away, it can't bid again for six months.

"The price is finely balanced."

"I think it's a good price that's on the table at the moment but probably they could do better than that."

It was hard to evaluate the bid, given the uncertainty over how much Pfizer could trim off its tax bill by redomiciling in Britain. Pfizer's reluctance to discuss its cost-cutting plans in detail also added to the opaqueness.

But last night's £55 per share offer was a chunky 44% premium on Astra's price in mid-April, before the City got wind of a potential deal.

Helen also reckons Pfizer can't raise its bid again, for at least six months anyway.

If you say final, the Takeover Panel holds you to that (well, for 6 mths).  So AstraZeneca hinting at acceptable price (c. £59) is moot.

In the decision of AZ's board we see the long term overcoming the short term, fast buck mentality we need to see less of in UK business.

AstraZeneca's sliding share price (still down 13%) has helped to knock the FTSE 100 into the red.

It's down 32 points this morning at 6822; away from the 14-year high hit last week.

FastFT flags up that AstraZeneca's chairman appears a little uncertain about the situation.

I have no idea, this has been going on for quite some time, and in very deep engagement over the whole of the weekend. Pfizer now says this is the final offer - I have to believe them at what they say.

This charts shows how AstraZeneca's shares have tumbled right back to their level in late April, after Pfizer made its first approach (but before it raised it).

That suggests the City sees little chance of a shareholder rebellion to force Astra's board to the negotiating table.

AstraZeneca shares have tumbled 13% at the start of trading to £41.90 per share.

That's down from £48 on Friday night, as investors react to its decision to rebuff Pfizer's final, £55 per share, offer this morning .

Astra chairman Johansson also dubbed Pfizer's proposal "controversial" --probably a reference to the company's plans to shift its tax base to the UK from the US.

Their offer is too low, we have better opportunity to create value for shareholders... in an undisrupted way.

Chuka Umnuna, shadow business minister, says AstraZeneca's board have done the right thing for their company, and the UK.

AstraZeneca shares closed at £48.23 on Friday night. They were worth £35 in January when Pfizer made its first, quiet, approach, and £38 in April when its ambitions were made public.

Pfizer has said its bid is "final" and won't go hostile, its only hope now is if AstraZeneca's shareholders rebel against the board.

Sam Fazeli, Bloomberg's pharmaceuticals correspondent, sees little chance that AstraZeneca's investors will rebel and demand talks with Pfizer.

He explains that shareholders could go to the company and say 'you've made your decision, but now we'd like you to talk to them'.

I think that is unlikely, as it would be a vote of no confidence in the company's management.

Under City rules, because Pfizer said its £55 per share offer is "final" it cannot raise it again, unless there's a material change in circumstances ( the first bullet point at the bottom of Pfizer's last offer makes this point).

Last night, Pfizer asked AstraZeneca shareholders " to urge the AstraZeneca board to begin substantive engagement with Pfizer" before May 26 -- when Pfizer must walk away unless talks are underway.

AstraZeneca rebuffs "final" offer of £55/share but seems to suggest that it would have recommended a bid of £58+ to shareholders.

AstraZeneca chairman Leif Johansson also criticised Pfizer for being motivated by the prospect of cutting its tax bill, by shifting its tax base to the UK.

"Pfizer's approach throughout its pursuit of AstraZeneca appears to have been fundamentally driven by the corporate financial benefits to its shareholders of cost savings and tax minimisation. From our first meeting in January to our latest discussion yesterday, and in the numerous phone calls in between, Pfizer has failed to make a compelling strategic, business or value case. The Board is firm in its conviction as to the appropriate terms to recommend to shareholders."

"We have rejected Pfizer's Final Proposal because it is inadequate and would present significant risks for shareholders, while also having serious consequences for the Company, our employees and the life-sciences sector in the UK, Sweden and the US."

Now this is interesting -- AstraZeneca told Pfizer on Friday night that its minimum acceptable price was around £59 per share (or around £74bn in total, I think).

"Pascal Soriot, Marc Dunoyer and I had a lengthy discussion with Pfizer over the weekend about the proposal Pfizer made on Friday evening at a value of £53.50 per share. During this discussion, Pfizer said that it could consider only minor improvements in the financial terms of the Friday Proposal. In response, we indicated, even assuming that other key aspects of any proposal had been satisfactory, that the price at which the Board of AstraZeneca would be prepared to provide a recommendation would have to be more than 10% above the level contained in Pfizer's Friday Proposal.

The Final Proposal is a minor improvement which continues to fall short of the Board's view of value and has been rejected."

AstraZeneca says it rejected Pfizer's £69bn offer because of the risk a takeover would pose to its pharmaceutical work, and the uncertainty it would create, as well as on price grounds.

The company says last night's Final Proposal "falls short of AstraZeneca's value as an independent science-led company.

Last week, AstraZeneca's CEO Pascal Soriot had warned MPs that life-saving drugs could be delayed by a takeover.

Breaking: AstraZeneca has just told the City that it has rejected Pfizer's increased offer of £55 per share, declaring that it fails to recognise its full value.

Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of the financial markets, the world economy, business and the eurozone.

The City is on tenterhooks this morning, after Pfizer raised its takeover offer for AstraZeneca last night, and sweetened the cash component of the deal.

Day 243 of the Pfizer/AstraZeneca story. At least, it's starting to feel like that.

In the economics space, Chinese house price growth has slowed again.
