
Welcome!

Although we don't believe in timing the market or panicking over market movements, we do like to keep an eye on big changes -- just in case they're material to our investing thesis.

What: Shares of AstraZeneca (NYSE: AZN     ) , a global branded pharmaceutical giant, tumbled as much as 13% after it rejected rival Pfizer's  (NYSE: PFE     )  purported final offer to buy the company.

So what: Under the terms of the latest deal Pfizer was willing to pay $118.8 billion to purchase AstraZeneca (around $92.50 per share), whereas AstraZeneca's management team was looking for a considerably sweetened bid in the neighborhood of $98 or more per share. According to AstraZeneca's management team the deal would greatly undervalue the company current products and pipeline assets, and it doesn't believe that Pfizer's offer represents what's in the best interests of shareholders. In other words, the same speech shareholders have heard three times now. Pfizer now has until 5pm local time next Monday to make another offer under the U.K.'s takeover rules, otherwise it can't make another offer for AstraZeneca for six months.

Now what: With an offer that represented a 45% premium from whence the bidding began, I believe AstraZeneca's board has stubbornly thrown away what I consider to be a more-than-fair offer. The true value for Pfizer lies in purchasing AstraZeneca and moving its headquarters overseas to reduce it tax liability. That and combining its R&D and SG&A department would result in billions of savings – although it would take a couple of years to realize all those savings. AstraZeneca, though, has a lot of ongoing issues it needs to work through, but none more pressing than its ongoing patent issues. The deal would have made sense from a strategic standpoint , but I had trouble justifying the price following the first bid, let alone a third bid from Pfizer's standpoint. I would personally be surprised to see any competing bids come in, or for Pfizer to make a fourth bid for AstraZeneca. It's quite possible that, as I warned previously , shareholders could see nearly all of their buyout talk gains erode over the coming weeks.

The smartest investors know that dividend stocks simply crush their non-dividend paying counterparts over the long term. That's beyond dispute. They also know that a well-constructed dividend portfolio creates wealth steadily, while still allowing you to sleep like a baby. Knowing how valuable such a portfolio might be, our top analysts put together a report on a group of high-yielding stocks  that should be in any income investor's portfolio. To see our free report on these stocks, just  click here now .

Sean Williams  has no material interest in any companies mentioned in this article. You can follow him on CAPS under the screen name  TMFUltraLong , track every pick he makes under the screen name  TrackUltraLong , and check him out on Twitter, where he goes by the handle  @TMFUltraLong .

Try any of our Foolish newsletter services  free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that  considering a diverse range of insights  makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a  disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

' . . .combining its R&D and SG&A department would result in billions of savings.'

Thanks for the article, Sean, but respectfully, I disagree.

Merging two large pharma companies and combining their R&D and SG&A departments may realize some cost savings to appease shareholders who own the stock but don't understand the business, but ultimately it eviscerates the R in R&D, and that is what drives the discovery of new drugs.  Large Pharma is in the business of discovering and developing new drugs, and the creativity and innovation in 'R' are what drive that discovery.  Large Pharma CEO's behave as though they do not understand this.

Minus 12% on any stock is taking quite a hit.  At some point, AZN becomes a buy (again), with good management, a good discovery operation, and a solid dividend.  PFE is the opposite, with an anemic dividend and management that couldn't set solid strategy even if it happened to come up and bite them in the rear end.  And of course, they have already eviscerated their own discovery operation.  They got rid of Sandwich, Kent in the UK that was largely responsible for all of their current drugs.  They have proven that you can't buy and cut your way to prosperity.  All it does is remove jobs from the economy, jobs in 'R' that might help you discover new drugs.  Congratuations to the UK and Swedish governments for opposing, and hopefully, nixing this deal.

Yes, congrats to the UK and Swedish govts for throwing away tax dollars and jobs.  As a PFE stockholder (and up 35% nice and steady upward slope, thank you very much Mr. Bear), glad they walked away.   AZ thinks too much of themselves and will eventually get bought out by someone at a lower price than Pfizer offered.

Add your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
