
The Lincoln Airport announced Monday that a new flight to Atlanta on Delta Air Lines will begin Sept. 8.

The daily flight will leave Lincoln at 7 a.m. and arrive at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport at 10:47 a.m. Eastern time. The return flight will leave at 7:15 p.m. Eastern time and arrive at 8:42 p.m. local time.

Lincoln Airport Executive Director John Wood said he's been told the flight will be on the Canadair CRJ700, a larger regional aircraft that will have at least 65 seats, which means it will have a small section of first-class seating in addition to economy class.

Wood said in a news release that the schedule will make the flight convenient for business travelers.

Lincoln had service to Atlanta on Delta in the summer of 2009, but the afternoon departure time made it inconvenient for both business and leisure travelers, and Delta pulled the flight after a little more than two months.

This time, the service is secured by a $750,000 federal grant that serves as a revenue guarantee. To be able to tap the grant, Delta must keep the service in place for one year.

Wood said he's hoping the flight will be successful enough that the grant money won't be necessary.

A check of fares for the flight on Delta's website showed a person leaving on Sept. 8 and returning on Sept. 15 would pay $413.50 for an economy fare. A business traveler leaving on Sept. 8 and returning the same day will pay more than twice that, however -- $973.50. Comparable flights out of Omaha are $383.50 and $1,031.50, respectively.

Lincoln has had consistent service going east, north and west for decades, but southern service has been intermittent.

In addition to the Atlanta service in the summer of 2009, Delta provided short-lived Memphis service in the summer of 2011, and its predecessor, Northwest Airlines, had Lincoln-Memphis flights for about nine months in 2005.

Wood said flights to Atlanta will be a good option because of its convenient connections to the Southeast and East Coast as well as its numerous international connections. The Atlanta airport is the busiest in the world in the number of passengers served.

"It's a great hub," Wood said.

Lincoln Chamber of Commerce President Wendy Birdsall said not only will the schedule be a benefit to travelers, especially business travelers, but the flight itself will make it much easier to get to destinations in the South and Southeast.

"This really helps us a great deal," she said.

The service comes at a good time for the airport, with passenger numbers on the rise after nearly a decade of yearly declines. Through April, passenger numbers at the airport were up 2 percent over the same period in 2013. That follows on the heels of a 5 percent year-over-year gain in 2013.

Both Wood and Birdsall stressed the need for Lincoln travelers to use the service to make sure it is successful and stays in place.

"I can't stress enough that people need to use it," Birdsall said.

Copyright 2014 JournalStar.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

James Mowitz is the newest commercial loan officer at Pinnacle Bank's 14th and N Streets branch.

Username & Password Required!
