
United Way for Greater Austin has been around for a long time. Ninety years, in fact. Coming off its April 1 90th anniversary, the nonprofit is taking the opportunity to remind Bastrop residents, as well as residents in the greater Austin and surrounding areas, of the services it provides to the community.

The nonprofit originally formed in Austin in 1924 with the mission to fight poverty in the area, though in more recent years, the organization made a shift from funding basic needs to a model of community impact work.

One of the nonprofit’s most beneficial services is directing calls taken in from local residents to the various organizations or medical facilities better suited to take care of their needs. The organization has direct ties with many area providers for food-related, rent and utility and health insurance needs.

In 2013, Bastrop County residents alone placed 8,947 calls to United Way’s navigation center — the second highest number of calls placed through the service per capita.

United Way recently partnered with Workforce Solutions Rural Capital Area for a project that offered free tax preparation services to low-income residents in the Bastrop area.

Each year, United Way also hosts a Day of Caring event that allows community members to partner with a local businesses and organizations for a day giving back.

Last year, the Bastrop Family Crisis Center teamed up with United Way and the local Starbucks to put a fresh coat of paint on the back porch of the crisis center.

Pietsch added that being able to provide community members with a better understanding of some of the prevalent issues surrounding the crisis center was an invaluable resource.

For more information about United Way or how to get involved, visit www.unitedwayaustin.org .

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
