
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Europe has been fashionable with investors for some time, with the latest Merrill Lynch fund manager survey showing that a net 36 per cent are overweight European equities.

The rotation into Europe has been lopsided, however, and Morgan Stanley analysis indicates large-cap stocks are where investors should be looking to park their money.

Money has flowed into small and mid-sized stocks, the latter trading on a price-book ratio of more than two, compared to less than 1.5 for large-cap stocks.

In fact, relative to the overall market, large-cap stocks are trading at a 30-year low in terms of price-book valuations, and near 30-year lows in terms of relative dividend yields.

Adjusted price-earnings ratios are at record relative lows, some 30 per cent cheaper than the market – similar to the premium enjoyed by large-cap stocks in 2000 when they hit their structural peak.

Large-cap underperformance has persisted for years, but Morgan Stanley is encouraged by recent merger and acquisitions activity – most spectacularly in Pfizer’s £63 billion (€77.3 billion) bid for AstraZeneca .

In short, the big guns will not stay “cheap and unloved” forever.

There is one key takeaway from the above-mentioned Merrill Lynch monthly fund manager survey, namely that cash levels have jumped to the highest level since June 2012, indicating there is plenty of juice in the tank for further market gains.

Managers usually raise cash when spooked by equity declines, as was the case in June 2012.

Peculiarly, cash levels have remained high for some time, having been above 4.4 per cent – Merrill regards 4.5 per cent as a contrarian buy signal – for each of the last 11 months.

Today, they are at 5 per cent. A net 22 per cent of managers, meanwhile, are taking below-normal levels of risk.

Bull markets usually end when everybody is invested. That’s not the case today.

AIB bosses aren’t chuffed to be running what is ostensibly one of the most valuable banks in the world, reminding investors last week that it now trades at eight times net asset value, eight times the European norm.

The State owns 99.8 per cent of the stock, and the tiny amount of shares available for trading has somehow resulted in a nutty valuation of about €59 billion. In Europe, only HSBC has a higher market value.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
