
Ryanair's free 'second carry-on bag' promise has come under fire after passengers were forced to check in their extra piece of luggage.

The pledge, launched as a charm offensive, only applies to the first 90 10kg cabin bags, meaning other holidaymakers have to queue as suitcases are checked in on flights – causing delays.

Passengers are only told at departure gates whether their two bags will fit into the cabin.

If they don't fit, extra luggage is checked into the hold, meaning travellers have to wait at baggage carousels when they land.

And staff members even appeal for volunteers to come forward to receive a complimentary check-in of their bag, according to flyers.

Alex Gore, 29, from London, was flying with Ryanair from Kerry Airport in Ireland to London Stansted on Easter bank holiday Monday, when he heard the announcement.

He said: ‘It's ridiculous, not least because it caused a massive queue at the gate - and they didn't even start boarding people for another half an hour.

‘People spend all that time trying to fit their things into a small bag and worrying that it's too big and they will end up being charged if it has to go in the hold.

Ryanair passengers have also been expressing anger on travel review website TripAdvisor.

DouglasDC8 pointed out that because Ryanair's 737s hold 189 people, more than half of those on board would have to check in their hand luggage.

One user alleged it was a ploy by Ryanair to get more passengers to pay the extra priority boarding fee.

A spokesman for Ryanair said: ‘Ryanair overhead lockers have capacity for 190 cabin bags.

'Like all other airlines on fully booked flights, we may not be able to accommodate two carry-on bags per customer, so we may ask some customers to volunteer to check-in bigger bags at the gate or ask the last boarding customers to check in one of their two carry-on bags so as not to delay the flight departure.

'All such checked-in bags are carried in the hold, free of charge. This policy has been operating since December with no difficulties and customers love the convenience of our two free carry-on bags policy.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
