
Welcome!

Source: Company Investor Presentation.

National Mortgage Settlement Monitor Joseph A. Smith has released another compliance report, showing that big bankssuch as Bank of America Corp. (NYSE: BAC     ) , continue to rectify mortgage servicing problems previously highlighted by Smith.

However, non-bank servicer Green Tree, a subsidiary of Walter Investment Management (NYSE: WAC     ) , failed on eight of 29 metric servicing tests – falling flat on issues like pre-foreclosure initiation notifications to borrowers, third-party vendor management, and complaint response timeliness.

- Accurately representing amounts borrowers owed in paperwork supporting relief from stay in bankruptcy proceedings;

- Reliably providing borrowers with accurate information in pre-foreclosure letters;

- Timely notification to borrowers of missing documents in their loan modification requests.

According to Smith, Bank of America instituted Corrective Action Plans for each of its failings, and no further problems were identified during the second half of 2013 – though the bank is currently testing again in regards to the first issue.

Bank of America has taken a lot of flak for its lack of expertise and finesse in the mortgage arena, so this news is especially satisfying.

Unfortunately, another measure of the bank's ability to satisfy mortgage loan customers shows that the big bank still falls far short.

Every year, J.D. Power surveys thousands of consumers about their satisfaction levels with their mortgage lender. Though the poll was not about loan servicing, issues such as satisfaction with a lender's customer service were rated – particularly the clarity of communication between bank representatives and customers.

Although last November's results showed a general uptick in customer satisfaction with lenders overall, Bank of America came in third from last in ratings of 14 mortgage loan originators, sporting a score of 734 out of a possible 1,000. One bright spot: the bank's score was higher last year than in 2012, when B of A came in last with a score of 696.

As for Green Tree, Walter Investment posted a response on its website the same day as Smith's report was publicized. The company noted that, due to Green Tree's acquisition of Residential Capital's mortgage servicing rights in bulk last January, it agreed to be judged on all 29 metrics at once, rather than in stages, as other servicers had been evaluated. Walter pledged to put corrective action in place to rectify the problems.

Bank of America, meantime, seems to be addressing the numerous problems with its mortgage business, particularly the customer service aspect – though progress is achingly slow.

Perhaps, by the time the mortgage market fully recovers, B of A will be ready as well.

There's a  brand-new company that's revolutionizing banking , and is poised to kill the hated traditional brick-and-mortar banks. That's bad for them, but great for investors. And amazingly, despite its rapid growth, this company is still flying under the radar of Wall Street. To learn about about this company, click here to access our new special free report.

Amanda Alix has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Bank of America. The Motley Fool owns shares of Bank of America. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

I have to agree with you when you state that Bank of America is Sterling when compared to Green Tree. When you find someone to talk with that treats you as a real person, they done seem to last more that 3 months. They are either fired for not properly representing the image that owners want or they get sick and tired of working with these people because do not like the image they are expected to represent.

Add your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
