
The United States on Monday plans to announce espionage charges against several Chinese individuals, accusing them of spying on American companies and stealing trade secrets, according to media reports. The US Justice Department, in filing the charges, is publicly accusing China with such cyber spying for the first time.

A Justice Official did not dispute the reports but declined to give further details.

Attorney General Eric Holder and other US officials are planning to hold a news conference at 10:00 am EDT (14:00 GMT) "to announce a criminal indictment in a national security case."

The reports did not name the Chinese government officials or companies targeted by US officials, but NBC News said they include those in the energy and manufacturing sectors. "They used military and intelligence facilities to commit cyber espionage against US companies," one US official told NBC News.

A separate report by the Wall Street journal said the US planned to charge five people allegedly linked with the People's Liberation Army.

American officials have long been concerned about hacking from abroad, especially China.

On Sunday, a top Chinese Internet official called for Beijing to tighten its own cyber security, citing "overseas hostile forces."

An FBI official last week told Reuters to expect multiple cyber security-related cases, including indictments and arrests, in the coming weeks.

The charges mark an escalation in the dispute between the world's two largest economies over hacking, which has become a major irritant in their often complicated relationship.

The United States has accused China of waging a vast cyber-espionage campaign with government support that has stolen the secrets of US companies.

President Barack Obama raised concerns directly with China after a private study concluded that cyber-theft was costing the United States billions of dollars a year.

China has hit back that Washington is hypocritical as it conducts widespread surveillance around the world, as revealed by former government contractor Edward Snowden.

All rights reserved.
