
Google is buying Divide, a startup whose technology aims to bring Android up to the security standards required by large enterprises like banks, for an undisclosed sum.

New York City-based Divide will see its team transferred over to the Android team, according to Re/code. The company, which used to go by the unfortunate moniker Enterproid, raised about $25 million from a slew of mostly corporate VCs since it was founded in 2010 by David Zhu, Alexander Trewby and Andrew Toy. Its backers included Google Ventures as well as Comcast Ventures, Qualcomm Ventures, Globespan Capital Partners and Harmony Partners.

This could be seen as a win for the corporate VC partnering strategy — investing gave Google access to a technology it later wanted for itself.

It's an interesting purchase for Google because it signals that the company is getting serious about selling smartphones into enterprise, a $284 billion global market. Although Android is by far the largest smartphone operating system, iPhones outnumber Android devices by a considerable margin when it comes to work-provided phones. According to Citrix, roughly 60 percent of enterprise companies in the U.S. choose iOS devices over iPhone, and that figure is even starker in the desirable growth market of Asia, where three out of four mobile devices used for business run iOS.

Why? In a word, security. Although Android's comparative openness is a strength when it comes to courting developers, it has also led to a rather large malware problem. According to Intel Security, something like 97 percent of mobile viruses were aimed at attacking Android in 2013. And while it's hard to say how much of a security threat that really presents to a company's network, the optics of the situation have kept risk-averse IT departments away from Google's operating system.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
