
Welcome!

Warren Buffett only buys certain types of companies and stocks for Berkshire Hathaway's (NYSE: BRK-A     )  portfolio. Generally, he wants companies that are stable, have shareholder-friendly management, and -- most importantly -- that have a distinct and durable competitive advantage.

In fact, his investment style is so specific that he made up his own term for these types of companies: "wide moat." A wide moat company is one that will withstand the test of time because it's in an industry that will be around forever and it does its business better than its peers.

Looking over the holdings in Berkshire's portfolio, it's not too hard to figure out why Buffett chose those companies.

Coca-Cola is in an industry that will always be around -- durability --and it has perhaps the best brand recognition in the world -- a competitive advantage. American Express is in the payment processing business, which isn't going anywhere, and offers an unparalleled product line which allows them to successfully charge higher fees than its competitors year after year.

Buffett already owns shares in several banks, but there are 5 standouts with wide moats that he should either buy -- or buy more of.

Imagine a company that rents a very specific and valuable piece of machinery for $41,000... per hour (that's almost as much as the average American makes in a year!). And Warren Buffett is so confident in this company's can't-live-without-it business model, he just loaded up on 8.8 million shares. An exclusive, brand-new Motley Fool report details this company that  already has over 50% market share . Just click  HERE  to discover more about this industry-leading stock... and join Buffett in his quest for a veritable landslide of profits!

Matthew Frankel has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Berkshire Hathaway and Goldman Sachs. The Motley Fool owns shares of Berkshire Hathaway. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Be the first one to comment on this article.

Your Fool username will be displayed with your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
