
Welcome!

Enbridge Inc's (NYSE: ENB     )  Northern Gateway pipeline project is causing considerable debate in Canada, and a legal ruling on its future is imminent. But rather than wait and see what happens with the Northern Gateway, the Canadian government enacted new measures to boost the liability of all oil pipeline operators in the case of spillage.

"Even in the most extreme and unlikely circumstances, the government will ensure that the environment, landowners and taxpayers are protected and the polluter pays," said Natural Resources Minister Greg Rickford in a prepared text and reported  in Bloomberg.

In this "Digging for Value" video, Fool energy and materials analysts Joel South and Taylor Muckerman discuss how this tough new measure will affect oil sands companies of all sizes, starting with the biggest: Suncor Energy (NYSE: SU     ) .

Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Be the first one to comment on this article.

Your Fool username will be displayed with your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
