
Despite being a year old, the Samsung Galaxy S4 is still trucking. That's because the S4 comes with a gorgeous Full HD 5-inch inch display, a speedy quad-core processor and 2GB of RAM. The fact that it's upgradeable to the latest version of Android is also great for its long-term viability as a top shelf Android smartphone. That being said, Samsung has proceeded to release the Galaxy S5, the successor to the S4, and the current flagship in their smartphone stable.

How do these two phones compare when given the ultimate head-to-head treatment? Continue reading to find out more.

Let's start off with screen size. The Galaxy S5 edges out its sibling by a mere .1 inches while retaining the same Full HD resolution. That means the S5 has a screen size of 5.1 inches . In terms of pixels per inch, the S4 is actually better than the S5. However, any difference is rendered moot by the mere fact that you'll likely hold a larger smartphone farther from your eyeballs.

Some of the changes include a dimpled backplate and a chrome metal-esque ring that wraps around the phones edges. The results look ok and feel average at best. If you really want a metal smartphone, your options today include the iPhone 5s and the HTC One series (M7 and M8). The Galaxy S5 Prime is rumored to be launching later this year with a metal build quality, and possibly a better screen.

Now what about media expansion? Unlike the notoriously locked and untouchable iPhone hardware, the Samsung Galaxy line not only allows you to remove the backplate and gain access to the battery, but gives you the chance to upgrade your ROM. The S4 can accept 64GB microSD cards while the S5 allows for 128GB microSDXC cards . With that much storage, you'll never have to worry about running out of room for your pictures, music and movies ever again.

Features exclusive to the S5 include a heart rate monitor , far less gimicky software, waterproofing and biometric security . And, of course, the S5 is faster and sleeker, but the S4 is still a good pickup not only because of its price-to-performance ratio, but the mere fact that the thing can handle almost anything its users will throw its way.

Are you the proud owner of an Samsung Galaxy S4 or 5? What do you think of your phone? Would you ever go to the dark side and pickup a Windows Phone or Apple iPhone? Let us know in the comments section below.

Featured Video :  #TapThatAppTuesday: It's Popcorn Time!

Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
