
Some of AstraZeneca’s major shareholders have rounded on the board for not engaging with Pfizer.

As the British drugs giant knocked back the US predator’s ‘final’ £55 a share bid for the company, a group of its largest investors accused directors of not acting in their interests.

AXA and Jupiter, which between them hold more than 5 per cent of the company’s shares, have spoken openly about their discontent. AstraZeneca shares dropped 11 per cent yesterday and were down a further 1.4 per cent at 10am Tuesday morning.

Schroder’s, a top 15 shareholder, has also been ferociously critical of the board behind closed doors, according to City sources.

He added the fund management firm had voiced its unhappiness to the board and urged it to come to the table.

But many others have privately backed Astra’s decision not to cave in and take the US company’s money.

Shares  fell 11 per cent, wiping £7billion off the company and indicating that  markets believe the deal to be dead in the water. If Pfizer has not  secured a deal by Monday it will face a six month legal ban from making  another approach under UK takeover rules.

But some disastrous decisions have been made.

The  reckless way in which shareholders, for instance, approved the purchase  of ABN Amro by Royal Bank of Scotland in 2007 – after Northern Rock had  demonstrated the fractures in the banking system – is a case in point.

Indeed,  shareholders have become more cautious in their behaviour and did not  much like the G4S bid for Danish cleaning company ISS.

The  board of water utility Severn Trent also stood firm against an offer  from Canadian marauders. So there is no longer any certainty that  overseas bids will be automatically approved.

What  makes deals in the pharmaceutical sector so different is the time scale  of R&D in the industry. AstraZeneca thinks in terms of 12 years to  bring drugs to market.

Pfizer’s initial guarantees were only  for five years and in the end its heavy play of tax advantages did not  win many hearts and minds because it smelled of financial engineering.

Because  Pfizer made a commitment not to go ‘hostile’ – where it would make an  offer directly to Astra shareholders – it is now legally barred from  doing so. It is also unable to hike its offer, the fourth it has made,  any further.

The  only way a deal could now proceed is if shareholder anger over Astra’s  decision, which is already building, forces the company’s board to  solicit deal terms from Pfizer.

Alistair Gunn, a fund manager at Jupiter, which is one of the 30 largest shareholders, said he would be ‘expressing our disappointment to the AstraZeneca board over the way the bid process has been handled up to now’.

He added: ‘We would have preferred to see the board engage in a constructive conversation with Pfizer on the details of the offer to assess the opportunities that a combined entity could bring.

Astra, down 536p at 4287.5p, rejected a previous offer from Pfizer ‘without hesitation’.

The company yesterday issued a rebuttal of Pfizer’s ‘final’ £69bn attempt to buy the company.

Astra has insisted that its pipeline of cancer and diabetes drugs could propel the group’s shares to well in excess of the £55 offered by Pfizer.

It has also raised concerns over Pfizer’s motives for the deal – which it said were dominated by tax concerns rather than science.

But some high level investors raised questions over whether Astra could deliver on its promise of more lucrative blockbuster drugs.

Anne Richards, chief investment officer at Aberdeen Asset Management – a top ten shareholder with 2.4 per cent – said: ‘Valuing the pipeline of future products in a pharmaceutical company is notoriously tricky and it’s where a lot of attention will be focused.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .
