
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

Nokia XL, priced at Rs 11,489, has a 5" IPS capacitive color touch screen.

SummaryNokia XL brings much desired large screen experience at an affordable price point of Rs 11,489.

Microsoft Devices has announced that Nokia XL, the flagship large screen offering under the Nokia X family of affordable smartphones that run Android apps, will begin selling in India from Monday.

With a 5" IPS capacitive color touch screen, the Nokia XL brings the much desired large screen experience at an affordable price point of Rs 11,489.

The device further augments the imaging experience with a 2-megapixel front-facing camera for video calls on Skype and a 5-megapixel rear camera with autofocus and flash. It comes with a powerful 2000 mAh battery, rated for 16 hours of talktime and up to 41 days of standby.

The new Nokia XL is armed with the Fastlane experience which has been completely re-imagined for the Nokia X family. Fastlane is now more customizable and social. Users can select what appears on their Fastlane feed, read notifications from their social networks and update their status from within Fastlane, making the experience even more productive.

“With the Nokia X Family we look to offer a variety of choices to our consumers at different price points.  After receiving a great response with the Nokia X, which introduced the category to this market, we are now bringing the much awaited Nokia XL and X+ to our consumers. Nokia XL, our flagship offering within the Nokia X family,comes packed with a large screen experience with a superlative front camera and a wide array of apps, offering a great Smartphone experience at an affordable price point. This will be further amplified through the X+ which will be simultaneously launched with the XL completing the Nokia X family serving as the perfect introduction to the world of Android apps, coupled with signature Nokia experiences, and the most popular Microsoft services.”, said Viral Oza, Director Marketing, Nokia India Sales, a subsidiary of Microsoft Mobile Oy.

The Nokia XL device is the next offering in the Nokia X family which includes Nokia X, launched earlier this year in India, and the Nokia X+  launched simultaneously  comes armed with an enhanced RAM and is  priced at Rs 8,399.
