
Tessier has called on the e-commerce giant to bar the Boy Scouts of America from its charitable giving program, AmazonSmile, until the youth service organization permits openly gay men and women to serve in leadership roles.

A Change.org petition Tessier created along with Scouts for Equality has garnered more than 124,000 signatures to date . Tessier and his mother, Tracie Felker, plan to fly to Seattle Tuesday morning to hand deliver the petition to Amazon’s headquarters.

Corporations have faced increasing pressure from customers for their stances on social and political policies. Last month, the newly appointed chief executive for Mozilla, the organization behind the Firefox Web browser, resigned after heavy criticism of his contributions to same-sex marriage opponents.

Amazon donates 0.5 percent of the price of purchases made through AmazonSmile to an organization of the buyer’s choice. But Tessier asserts that including the Boy Scouts of America in that program violates Amazon’s policy for eligible organizations.

“It’s more asking Amazon to put action to their own words,” Tessier said.

“Customers can select from nearly a million legally recognized 501(c)(3) charitable organizations on AmazonSmile. We rely on lists published by the Southern Poverty Law Center and the US Office of Foreign Assets Control to determine if certain organizations are ineligible to participate,” Amazon.com spokesman Ty Rogers said via e-mail.

Amazon.com founder Jeffrey P. Bezos, who owns The Washington Post and its affiliated publications, previously made a sizeable donation to organizations fighting for marriage equality in Washington state. Same-sex marriage was made legal there in 2012.

The Boy Scouts of America has faced mounting pressure from its members and financial backers in recent years to become more inclusive of gay scouts and leaders. The organization reversed a ban on openly gay scouts last year, but continues to exclude gay and lesbian adults from membership.

Tessier, a senior at Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School in Montgomery County, plans to study psychology at The College of Wooster in Wooster, Ohio next year.

Steven Overly covers the business of technology, biotechnology and venture capital in the Washington region for The Washington Post and its weekly Capital Business publication. In that capacity, he has written about start-up struggles, investment trends and major drug discoveries.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
