
'High elf' attacks woman's car with sword while battling 'the evil Morgoth'

Oregon man Konrad Bass was on LSD during the bizarre sword attack in Portland.

PORTLAND, Ore., May 19 (UPI) -- An Oregon woman's car was attacked last week by a 30-year-old man who told police that he was battling "the evil Morgoth."

Morgoth is an evil character created by J.R.R. Tolkien who is featured in the "Lord of the Rings" books.

Konrad Bass was allegedly high on LSD when he used a sword to attack a woman's car and puncture it. Bass was wearing chain-mail with a helmet and carrying a shield during the attack, but the woman was apparently unable to recognize his costume and told a 911 dispatcher that "a pirate" was attacking her car.

Bass told police he was a "high-elf engaged in the battle with the evil Morgoth," not a pirate, according to KATU . He also had a staff on him at the time of the attack.

Paramedics brought Bass to the hospital after the incident and he now faces charges of disorderly conduct, criminal mischief and menacing, KPTV reported .

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
