
Globe and Mail columnist Elizabeth Renzetti.

Sean Quinn’s diagnosis places him in the middle of a tangle called “developmental services.” And developmental services, in the province of Ontario, is a chronically underfunded, busted system. An estimated 21,000 people needing help – young people and adults with challenges ranging from autism and fetal alcohol syndrome to intellectual disabilities – languish on waiting lists.

Some parents can’t get a diagnosis in the first place. Many discover that their children are “dropped off a cliff” once they turn 18. Others, like Ms. Quinn, struggle with a group-home system where underpaid, largely part-time caregivers are stretched to the breaking point. “They provide wonderful care,” Ms. Quinn says, “but they can’t live on what they make.” She is worried that group homes like her son’s might close after she’s no longer here to fight on his behalf.

The situation is so bad that last year, the provincial government set up an all-party committee, which released an interim report in March that said: “Across the province, families of people with developmental disabilities are in crisis.” A lack of services means that too many people with developmental disabilities “end up in long-term care, hospital beds, psychiatric wards, homeless or incarcerated.” Families described the funding system, a bewildering patchwork strung between several ministries, as “dysfunctional,” “a travesty,” and “a violation of the rights of Ontario’s most vulnerable citizens.” Some families have sold their houses to pay for private care, the committee reported.

Last month, Premier Kathleen Wynne proposed an injection of $810-million into the system, merely to end the wait lists. A mother of a disabled son told me it would have been “a small Band-Aid that doesn’t cover the wound.” The point is moot anyway: That money, and the budget it was attached to, died with the provincial election call.

In the heat of an election campaign, when promises appear out of thin air and appeals are made only to the wallet, it’s easy to forget that there are real people attached to the numbers. When Progressive Conservative Leader Tim Hudak talks about slashing 100,000 jobs from the public sector, is he talking about the people who care for disabled adults, wash them, talk to them and take them out for day trips? Not that there are many day trips any more. The service cuts result in “reinstutionalization” – that is, what’s supposed to be community living is sometimes little better than life in the grim old institutions.
