
A strong Easter and new routes are driving the gains made by the short hop carrier.

AER LINGUS REGIONAL traffic increased by 35 per cent last month compared to April 2014.

The short-hop carrier, which operates under the Stobart Air banner, flew 112,435 passengers last month, up 29,130 on last year’s numbers.

Passengers flying to and from Dublin were up by 50 per cent with the Kerry-Dublin route seeing an increase of 38 per cent in April compared to the same month last year.

Passenger numbers on the Dublin-London Southend route were up by 21 per cent, with strong traffic over the Easter weekend combining with new routes from Dublin to Jersey, from Cork to Newcastle, and Shannon to Bristol also driving loads up.

The April figures follow on from slower gains made in March, when passenger numbers were up by 9 per cent.

The regional carrier has now rolled out seven of its eight new ATR 72-600 aircraft which were purchased last year.

He said that the increase has also been driven by journeys originating from the UK that are connecting to transatlantic flights at Dublin and Shannon, particularly from Bristol and Glasgow.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Aer Lingus regional traffic up, up and away by 35 per cent”.

Feedback on “Aer Lingus regional traffic up, up and away by 35 per cent”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
