
STICKNEY – A 13-year-old Cicero girl was allegedly thrown off a Stickney-Forest View Little League team after her father criticized league officials, one of which is a village of Stickney trustee. The father of the girl was banished from all little league functions, along with his wife, under the threat of arrest for trespassing at the little league ball field.

Cicero resident Exan Santos said he was at a practice with his daughter at Edison School last month where he complained that his daughter's team was consistently late in getting there uniforms each season. He later also posted critical comments about the management of the league's president on a Facebook page.

To date, the team has yet to receive the uniforms, Santos said.

On May 5, Exan Santos, and his wife, Sandra Miranda Santos, each received a letter on Stickney-Forest View Little League stationary signed by David DeLeshe, Stickney village trustee and Stickney-Forest View Little League president, who wrote in the letter that the league had conducted an investigation regarding Santos' comments to determine if the Facebook posts were considered detrimental to the league, officers and/or players, which DeLeshe said would be a violation of the league's code of conduct.

On May 2, the the Stickney-Forest View Little League Executive Board concluded Santos' comments and posts were detrimental to the league, and in violation of the Stickney-Forest View Little League Code of Conduct and its bylaws, according to a board decision.

As a result, the board declared the Santos' would not be allowed at Rench Park and Baley/Sladetz Field for games, practices and any other little league functions, "effective immediately and enforced indefinitely," according to the league's decision.

The penalty also specified that complaints would be signed for trespassing and result in their arrest if they violated the board's decision.

But village of Stickney officials are unclear about whether DeLeshe and the little league board have that authority. Earlier this month, Stickney Village President Deborah Morelli was in touch with Stickney Police Chief John Sladetz to determine if DeLeshe had the authority to ban anyone from the ball parks.

"That's what we are looking into now," Morelli said. "I know the parents are upset."

Deputy Police Chief Richard Jaczak said he was working with the league and the State's Attorney's Office to determine if DeLeshe had the authority to ban anyone from the parks.

However, from the police department's standpoint, no one is banned and the department won't be making any arrests.

"Everyone is free to be out there," Jaczak said. "In the end its all about the kids."

The initial letter the Santos family received specified the Santos' daughter would be allowed to continue playing for her respective team, as long as any other issues were reported and verified by the league board. However, the league said, she would be removed from the league indefinitely if any other issues arose. Santos said he doesn't know why she was eventually thrown off the team.

Stickney resident and little league parent Daniel Fuentes said he, too, was sent a certified letter identical to that sent to Santos, but was only able to pick it up at the post office last week. Fuentes said he was also a vocal critic of DeLeshe and the handling of the uniform issue, which Fuentes said is still unresolved.

"[DeLeshe] has got issues," Fuentes said. "I don't know what his problem is. He's not just hurting the parents, he's hurting the kids. He's been a monkey wrench in everything he's been involved with. Everything he puts himself in, there's a conflict."

Numerous calls to reach DeLeshe for comment on ban and threat of arrests were not returned.

DeLeshe, who won a seat on the Stickney Village Board by a coin toss in April 2013, also served on the Brookfield-Lyons School District 103 Board of Education until he resigned in December 2013. He is also a police officer in Lyons.

Copyright © 2014 mySuburbanLife.com. All rights reserved. Published in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.
