
The state-of-the-art Sentinel reconnaissance aircraft was forced to stop in Senegal with an unspecified technical problem, the Ministry of Defence said.

A spokesman said they hoped to have it repaired and on its way to join the international rescue effort 'sooner rather than later'.

'We will get there as soon as we can,' he added.

It was  bound for the Ghanaian capital of Accra, west of Nigeria, where Islamist  terror group Boko Haram and their captives are in hiding.

It is hoped the jet will join US aircraft in attempting  to locate the girls, who were seized from a school dormitory in the  north-east of Nigeria last month.

Foreign Secretary William Hague urged west African nations to come together to defeat Boko Haram during international crisis talks in Paris on Saturday.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said: 'The kidnap of these girls is a reprehensible act which has drawn international condemnation.

'I am pleased that Britain's armed forces have been able to support the international search operation and provide the specialist skills which could help the Nigerians locate their missing children.'

The aircraft has a crew of five and is capable of flying for significant periods of time at high altitude.

It is fitted with radar which can locate moving targets and offer radar imagery - especially useful for monitoring activity on the ground.

The crew from 5 (Army Cooperation) Squadron had been put on stand-by since last week when Prime Minister David Cameron promised Britain would 'do what we can' to find the school girls.

Rich Barrow, RAF Waddington's station commander, said: 'We are permanently on stand-by to provide the UK with options during major incidents such as this and are delighted to be able to provide assistance to the Nigerian government in their efforts to find the girls and get them back with their families where they belong.

'The Sentinel with its wide area search capability and long endurance is perfect for this task.

'UK personnel will help to analyse the information gathered to improve the intelligence picture for the Nigerian authorities.'

UK experts are already working with a US team in the country trying to establish where the girls are being held.

However, speaking at the summit in Paris, Mr Hague said that in the long term, the UK and other countries would need to do more to support development in in the areas where Boko Haram is active.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
