
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and President Uhuru Kenyatta after the signing of mega infrastructure deals and financing  in Nairobi.  Analysts say the State could be staring at broke coffers, making debt repayment more difficult.

What Kenyans are known for istheir insatiable appetite for credit.  Their love for spending is not debatable.  This explains why the Central Bank of Kenya data shows that in the nine months to September 2013, Kenyans borrowed a massive Sh389.3 billion for personal or household use.

This is more than a quarter of total loans, which stood at Sh1.52 trillion as at September 2013.

Indeed, this compares poorly with the cash borrowed to invest in productive sectors such as agriculture and manufacturing that could boost the economy currently struggling for take off. The problem is that most personal loans are spent on consumables, luxuries and on acquiring depreciating assets, such as cars.

But despite the risks, over the past five years, the uptake of personal loans has more than doubled.  In Kenya, we learn to consume, and squander money before we earn it. Whereas the economy’s overall health is reflected by the productivity at the personal level, individuals’ poor saving and spending culture means the economy will still struggle to rebound.

But for most Kenyans, they don’t like this sort of conversation on spending within their means, borrowing wisely and investing prudently.  Though that is on an individual level, the same is happening on the national level.

The country is borrowing billions of shillings to fund operations with three quarters of the budget going to recurrent spending. Analysts say debt is not bad, but it depends on what the loan is used for.

With more than half of this loan being a commercial loan, the country’s level of indebtedness is indeed worrying. Kenya’s public debt will jump to Sh2.54 trillion. This is even before we add the $2 billion (Sh174 billion) that the Government wants to raise through Eurobond.

The matter could worsen with the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich revealing that he intends to borrow Sh190.8 billion from the domestic market and a further Sh149.8 billion from external financiers to bridge a Sh342.6 billion budget deficit in the next financial year (2014/2015).

Although Treasury mandarins have put on a brave face that the current debt levels are manageable and sustainable, economists warn the country could be slowly creeping into a debt trap.
