
The family of Karan Pandey, the 19-year-old biker who fell to a police bullet at India Gate last July, has accused Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Nejeeb Jung of shielding the personnel responsible for the young man’s death.

Since a magisterial inquiry report concluding that “there was unnecessary use of force by opening fire, which was disproportionate to the amount of threat to the PCR personnel’s life” was submitted to the L-G this January, Karan’s mother Manju Pandey has sent 10 letters to the L-G seeking action against the policemen, but claims that she has not received any reply from Dr. Jung’s office.

“We were told that after receiving the report the L-G had directed the Delhi Home Secretary to look into the matter. But these are delaying tactics, as they are awaiting a reply from Delhi Police to consider taking any action. I fail to understand where is the need to seek another reply from the police, when their documented version before the Magistrate was rejected? Do they expect Delhi Police to change their stance now? It is a pointless exercise,” said Ms. Pandey.

She added that the Delhi Police Commissioner too had assured her of action, but the department failed take any against Inspector Rajneesh Parmar, the officer who fired the bullet that killed Karan and left his friend Puneet Sharma injured. In the recent months, the family’s efforts to meet the L-G or the Police Commissioner too have not succeeded despite making several requests.

The Magistrate’s report, that took witnesses’ account, CCTV footages, and forensic and ballistic reports to come to a conclusion, also questioned the police claim that they had to fire as the bikers threw stones at the police control room vehicle.

Meanwhile, the National Human Rights Commission also issued a show cause notice to Delhi Government last month saying the Commission was of the opinion that Karan’s family be compensated.

The notice also added that the Delhi Chief Secretary will have to submit an action taken report on the magisterial enquiry report to the commission till June 10, failing which the commission will proceed to take such action as it deems fit.

But Ms. Pandey says monetary compensation is just one of the aspects of her “long battle for justice”.
