
An NYPD officer critically injured in a Brooklyn arson last month was released from the hospital Monday amid cheers and applause from her fellow officers and a tribute by a bagpipe band.

Officer Rosa Rodriguez, 36, a mother of four, was wheeled out of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center to a black Chevrolet Impala and left about 12:38 p.m.

Two of her young daughters, each wearing a police hat too big for them, led the procession to the car. Rodriguez, who held a bouquet of red roses and sprigs of baby's breath, smiled as scores of officers watched her come into the sunlight for the first time in six weeks.

"It is a huge, huge morale boost for her," said Deputy Insp. Carlos Valdez, commander of the housing unit to which Rodriguez is assigned.

Rodriguez had been hospitalized since April 6 when she and Officer Dennis Guerra responded to a fire on the 13th floor of 2007 Surf Ave. in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn. They took an elevator to the floor but were immediately overcome by smoke and toxic fumes from the fire, allegedly set by 16-year-old Marcell Dockery of Brooklyn.

Guerra, 38, died April 9 after sustaining lung damage. Dockery was then charged with murder and arson, felonies to which he has pleaded not guilty. Guerra's family was there to see Rodriguez leave the hospital.

Rodriguez suffered the same injuries as Guerra and doctors believed there was a 50 percent chance she would die. But as time went on and her lungs healed with the help of a breathing machine and medication, it became clear she'd survive.

"We are delighted," said Dr. Palmer Bessey, associate director of the hospital's burn center.

Bessey said it was hard to say if Rodriguez would return to police work.

"I think physically she can, and the issue is what it will do to her own sort of confidence and ability to sort of not be a little bit afraid," Bessey said.

Rodriguez has a "fabulous" attitude about recovery and tries to push herself a little further every day, Bessy said.

The doctor said that Rodriguez's slightly younger age, and the fact that Guerra had suffered a heart attack, contributed to the different outcomes for the two officers.

Patrick J. Lynch, president of the New York City Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, praised Rodriguez in a statement as a "representative of what drives New York City police officers."

"She is strong, determined and confident. She is totally dedicated to her family and her city and that is what drives her return to health," Lynch said.

"We are gratified that she has recovered enough to return to the family she loves and we pray that she will continue to heal and one day be able to return to patrol."
