
Residents concerned about plans for a 37-lot development off Southwest West Hills Road met for the second time Monday night with the developers.

The Corvallis Clinic’s Oncology and Hematology Department began receiving patients in a new location in the Aumann Building, 444 N.W. Elks Drive, last month.

The department previously was located in The Clinic’s Asbury Building.

Herschel Wallen is seeing patients in six different examination rooms, and there now are nine regular infusion areas, 50 percent more than in the previous location.

The location is more private and intimate than the former space, and there will be nearly twice as much room, with about 4,700 square feet of space. Lab services also are located in the Aumann Building, and there will be easier access to the building, including fully accessible parking.

The $1 million renovation to the southeast corner of the Aumann Building offers a spectacular view overlooking the city. Additional windows allow more natural light into the new chemotherapy center and showcase a view of the Cascade Mountains. The view soon will include landscaping of plants and flowers that surround the building.

The open design of the infusion area reflects patient feedback that many people enjoy the camaraderie of seeing other people during treatment. For patients who are frail or seek greater privacy, there also will be a private infusion room.

Dave Henderson was hired as the new vice president of finance and operations at Linn-Benton Community College, effective May 1.

Henderson was interim vice president for two months, succeeding outgoing vice president Jim Huckestein, who took a position at Clackamas Community College at the end of February.

Henderson’s experience includes directing operations of three Oregon offices of U.S. Representative Greg Walden, directing the business services department of Marion County, and serving as administrator of the Oregon State Capitol, leading its five support units. He has leadership experience in facilities management, facility services, financial services, human resources and risk management.

Henderson is responsible for college finance and budget, information technology, institutional research, facilities management, public safety and risk management, food services, and bookstore and printing operations.

Benton Hospice Service has announced the appointment of Melissa Allen as bereavement coordinator.

Allen joined Benton Hospice Service two years ago as a medical social worker. During that time, in addition to her work with hospice patients, Allen provided support to the Benton Hospice Service bereavement program by facilitating support groups and providing one-on-one counselling for both community and hospice families.

Before she joined Benton Hospice Service, Allen worked as a placement coordinator for a therapeutic foster care program in Atlanta, Georgia. She has a Bachelor of Arts degree in sociology with a minor in education from Rhodes College in Memphis, Tennessee, and a Master’s Degree in Social Work from Columbia University in New York City.

The bereavement program at Benton Hospice Service offers no-cost grief support to people of all ages in Benton and Linn counties. There is no need to be affiliated with a hospice patient. Allen can be reached at 541-757-9616.

Ron Leavitt of Corvallis Hearing Center received the Larry Mauldin Excellence in Teaching Award at the Audiology Now conference recently held in Orlando, Florida.

This award is unusual in that the recipient must be nominated by other professionals in the industry. Leavitt is the 15th audiologist in this country to receive the award.

Also, research done by Leavitt with Carol Flexer on the importance of audibility in hearing aid programming was identified as Best of Hearing Aid Research 2013. This award is given to researchers whose work has direct end-user application, and was chosen from 216 articles published in journals.

In addition, “Percent Hearing Loss Calculations and Evidence-Based Medicine,” a presentation given by Leavitt and Colette Welch, received the Excellence in Undergraduate Research Award.

The Association of College Unions International honored Oregon State University at its annual conference, held last month in Orlando, Florida.

OSU received the Outstanding Service Project of the Year Award, which acknowledges programs and program leaders who not only make a difference on campus, but also in the community.

To create awareness and understanding of issues of hunger, homelessness and poverty both in the surrounding community and the world, OSU coordinated a week of service-related activities titled “National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week.” A hallmark of the week was the “Faces of Homelessness” program, which humanized issues through stories shared by a panel of people experiencing homelessness.

Town & Country Realty has announced that Jill Schuster, Principal Broker, and Jessica Pankratz, Broker, were the only Corvallis/Albany real estate professionals recognized in the March 2014 issue of Portland Monthly magazine by Five Star Professionals.

Schuster and Pankratz were recognized for their customer service and customer satisfaction as indicated by a survey of Portland-area real estate professionals. Five Star Professional is a national research company that conducts satisfaction research for the real estate, mortgage, wealth management and insurance industries.

Copyright 2014 Corvallis Gazette Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Follow Us!

Username & Password Required!
