
if anyone else uses this computer.

WorleyParsons ( WOR ), a provider of services to the oil and gas sector, said it has won a new five year engineering, procurement and construction management contract in Turkey but its shares were dragged down by the mining sector.

The contract is for work on the 1,800km Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project (TANAP), which is designed to transport Caspian natural gas from the Georgian-Turkish border to Turkey’s western border with Greece.

WorleyParsons didn’t reveal the value of the contract, although the overall project is worth $11.7bn.

The company described the contract as “strategically important” but said that fees for engineering, procurement and construction management were significantly lower for pipeline projects than for “complex process projects”.

Last week, WorleyParsons was awarded a long-term engineering services contract in Trinidad and Tobago but again did not disclose the value of the deal.

Shares in the company finished the day down 3.3% to $15.62, which may have been a knock on effect of losses to mining companies as it derives a lot of its revenue from resources sector.

Rio Tinto shares fell 2.84% today, while Fortescue Metals Groups lost 4.26% as the price of iron ore dropped to a one-year low.

WorleyParsons’ underlying net profit for the first six months of the 2014 financial year was down 35% compared to a year earlier, which the company put down to a contraction in the Australian market.

Last month the company announced a $35m restructure, which will see it divide operations into three new business units .

Shares in WorleyParsons were worth $24.41 prior to a profit warning last September.

Shares in WorleyParsons have fallen this morning, despite the company announcing an engineering and project services contract supporting the expansion of the QCLNG development.

WorleyParsons (WOR) shares were up more than 5% this morning after it revealed plans for a restructure that will see the company reorganised into three new business lines, following an in-depth review of its operations.

WorleyParsons (WOR) has added a C$130m (A$131.8m) engineering and procurement services contract to its project pipeline for work on a Canadian bitumen refinery.

Australian stocks experienced a mid-week dip on Wednesday, with eight sectors closing lower led by Energy and Materials. The falls followed a quarterly report from the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics (BREE) which saw commodity related forecasts cut for the next two years.
