
1.

Sri Lanka’s government marked the fifth anniversary of its civil war victory over ethnic Tamil separatists on Sunday by displaying the country’s military strength, while preventing Tamil civilians from publicly remembering their dead.

The government’s approach highlights the deep ethnic polarization that remains in this island nation despite the end of the quarter-century civil war.

President Mahinda Rajapaksa presided over a Victory Day ceremony in the southern coastal town of Matara, where military personnel paraded in the streets with tanks and artillery guns, while fighter jets flew overhead.

In the country’s ethnic Tamil-majority north and east, however, military troops surrounded political party and newspaper offices in an apparent attempt to prevent public memorials for those who died in the war. They also closed the roads to a fountain in the northern Jaffna peninsula where Tamil Hindus have for generations performed rituals to remember their dead.

Military spokesman Ruwan Wanigasooriya could not be immediately reached for comment.

Sri Lanka’s military defeated Tamil Tiger rebels in May 2009, ending the long civil war. Heavy civilian casualties and allegations of serious human rights violations, especially in the final months of the fighting, prompted the United Nations Human Rights Council this year to sanction an international inquiry into the conduct of both sides.

According to initial U.N. estimates, between 80,000 and 100,000 people were killed in the conflict. A later U.N. report suggested that as many as 40,000 ethnic Tamil civilians may have been killed in the last months of the fighting alone.

Peace groups and the government’s own war commission had warned against holding major victory celebrations, saying they could further alienate the Tamil community. They instead advised the government to have a solemn memorial for all victims of the war.

“No wise country celebrates war victory after a civil war,” it said.

In a speech on Sunday, Rajapaksa defended the celebration.

2.

Five years ago on this narrow strip of land along the Bay of Bengal, Sri Lanka’s military waged some of the most controversial but decisive assaults on its Tamil adversaries.

The terrain here bears the scars of intense battle. A moonscape of bomb craters lies amid shallow, closely packed, hand-dug shelters. Bits of corrugated metal sprinkle the sand like macabre confetti where shells scored direct hits on the few reinforced bunkers.

This contentious battlefield was part of a no-fire zone declared by the Sri Lankan government in 2009, in the final months of its civil war with separatist militants, the Tamil Tigers.

In other words, the government demarcated the area as safe for civilians, but those who fled here were nonetheless attacked. Tens of thousands were trapped in the final months of the war.

An increasingly solid body of evidence points to numerous war crimes committed by government troops at this site — including mass rape and summary executions of surrendered fighters, in addition to the intentional shelling of civilians.

Next month, the United States is expected to call for a formal war crimes inquiry into the events here. UN Human Rights Commissioner Navi Pillay also backs an inquiry. Sri Lanka’s government rejects the idea, saying it gives scant or no regard to the domestic processes ongoing in Sri Lanka.

If you visit the site today, you wouldn’t get the impression of war crimes.

Instead, Sri Lanka’s government has transformed it into a tourist attraction.

Ethnic Sinhalese Buddhists arrive by the busload to snap photos of victory monuments and gawk at the site of the final decisive defeat of the Tigers.

The army operates cafes selling ice cream and snacks. One has a sign for beer. Many have playgrounds set up with swings and slides.

From 1983 to 2009, Sri Lanka’s Sinhalese-dominated government was locked in an on-again, off-again civil war with the Tigers, formally known as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The rebels were trying to establish an independent state for the Tamils, a mainly Hindu ethnic group with its own language. Representing around 10 per cent of Sri Lanka’s population, the community has long suffered from official and informal discrimination.

In 2009, the government launched a major offensive against the Tigers with seemingly little regard for civilian casualties. In fewer than six months the Tigers were crushed, in what the government dubbed the Humanitarian Operation. Up to 40,000 civilians were killed, according to the UN.

At the time, there was paltry international outcry.

When the war ended, the government razed Tamil Tiger monuments and cemeteries. Former militants were ushered into “rehabilitation” programs. Hundreds of thousands of civilians were forced into camps for internally displaced people. The victors showed little tolerance for dissent.

The government built towering victory monuments and opened captured sites to the public.

Even the language used at the sites tells a history many would dispute.

When the sites were completed and began receiving visitors, nearby villages were still war-shattered and littered with unexploded ordnance. Displaced civilians and survivors were left wondering about the fate of their friends and families.

Ananthi Sasitharan, a prominent Tamil politician, says her husband, a former Tiger political leader, disappeared during the final days of the war after a surrender to government forces had been arranged. She assumes he is being held in secret government detention or was summarily executed.

“The government is building victory monuments, but the people are unable even to cry for the dead,” she says.
