
Tanzania Airports Authority Terminal Three Project director Mohammed Millanga (2nd-R) shows the architectural model of the ongoing extension project of JNIA to (ICAO) Secretary General Raymond Benjamin.

The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has said that it will work hand-in-hand with the International Air Transport Association (IATA) so as to increase the technical life span of the black box from 30 days to 90.

In so doing, the two organizations would make sure that air traffic incidents are well monitored so as to save life.

Speaking in an interview with reporters shortly after visiting the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) air traffic control department, ICAO Secretary General Raymond Benjamin said that their organisation felt very sad in the event of the loss of Malaysia Airlines about two months ago.

Raymond insisted: “Apart from increasing the life span of the black box from 30 days to 90. We also intend to increase the flight recording capacity from 2 hours to fifteen hours. The issue here is to see that incidents of the kind of Malaysia Airlines do not happened again in the future,” he said.

Almost US$90m was earmarked in the federal budget for the search of the missing Malaysian Airlines plane.

Malaysian Airline MH370 is believed to have been lost in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Western Australia. Aerial and underwater searches involving dozens of ships and aircraft have been going on for more than two months. Despite the massive searching effort no traces of the plane have been found, even after the search has shifted to a new underwater phase.

However, the ICAO boss underscored that his visit to Tanzania aims to strengthen the good cooperation that exists between the country and the organisation.

Benjamin arrived in the country last week to make a follow-up on efforts of contracting states in meeting their obligations under the Chicago Convention for the safe operations of international civil aviations.

For the five-day tour in Tanzania the secretary general will also hold discussions with senior government officials from the Ministries of Transport and Ministry of Communication of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar.

The ICAO secretary general visited the Terminal Three at the JNIA to see aviation infrastructure that is currently undergoing construction.

Tanzania is one of the two countries to be visited by the ICAO secretary general, the other is Ethiopia.
