
HANOI - Most large companies operating in industrial parks hit by anti-China riots in Vietnam last week have resumed operations, underscoring the irresistible pull of the country as a low-cost manufacturing hub with a relatively skilled workforce.

Manufacturing has increasingly shifted away from China in recent years as wages there are climbing and there is a growing shortage of labour. The speed with which companies have returned to work in Vietnam’s industrial parks, which were the focus of rioting just last week, demonstrates the economic draw of doing business in the country, despite the risks.

The riots, which erupted after protests over disputed territory in the South China Sea, had sparked speculation that foreign investors could flee the country, but most say they have no plans to do so.

Vietnam has about 200 industrial parks and they have been a major driver of the country’s economic growth, accounting for more than 30 per cent of exports and attracting around US$110 billion (S$137.5 billion) in foreign direct investment.

“Vietnam is one of the most attractive places to do manufacturing. It’s a combination of people who are skillful and a good work force that is diligent and competent, and also wage levels that are competitive compared to the rest of Asia,” Mr Jerry Shum, a spokesman for Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings, told Reuters on Monday.

Operations at Yue Yuen, a US$4.7 billion company that makes footwear for the likes of Nike and Adidas, had returned to normal after production was temporarily suspended last week, he added.

Companies from Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong told Reuters that their investment strategy in Vietnam was unchanged, even though state-run Chinese media said Hanoi’s commitment to foreign investors was in doubt.

Some business officials, in particular those from Taiwan, said they had stepped up security at factory facilities, with China Steel Corporation tightening measures at  dormitories for its Taiwan and Chinese staff.

Eighty per cent of the 326 factories at two Vietnam-Singapore Industrial Parks in the south that were hit by the violence have resumed operations, the parks’ operators said. They are run by a joint venture between Vietnam’s Becamex IDC Corporation and a Singapore consortium led by Sembcorp Development, part of Sembcorp Industries.

Taiwan’s Formosa Plastics Group, one of the companies worst affected by the anti-China riots, told Reuters on Monday that work at its steel facility in central Vietnam had partially resumed and it hoped all operations would return to normal as soon as possible.
