
A serial conwoman behind a £230,000 fraud who used the police to try and protect herself from press exposure was today jailed for 30 months.

Bankrupt Neelam Desai was sentenced after admitting to a string of offences, including setting up a bogus travel agency as part of a ‘ponzi’ scheme which left one victim more £150,000 out of pocket.

The 33-year-old juggled a number of cons, some of them carried out while serving a suspended sentence for an earlier rip-off, and tried to pay off hundreds of thousands in debts using her oblivious mother’s chequebook.

She is also currently under investigation for a serious identity fraud scam, where one Leicestershire businessman lost £35,000 and his business.

Prosecutor Kathryn Pitters told Croydon Crown Court how huge amounts of money had been taken from customers for package holidays that never materialised.

When the con began to unravel she forged stolen cheques and resorted to trying to sell phantom iPhones over the internet charging upto £300 for mobiles that were never delivered.

Desai’s rackets began in in 2008 when she set up a travel agency operated out her home targetting wealthy members of the Asian community.

Mrs Pitters said: 'The deals were extraordinary in their scope and attracted a great deal of interest. Those deals were, however, too good to be true - they were so heavily discounted, that it was simply impossible for the defendant to deliver on the deals that she offered.'

He forked out over £175,000 in a number of payments to Desai, who said she was 'broke' but promised to pay back £180,000, although he only received a fraction after a £150,000 repayment failed to materialise.

Mrs Pitters said: 'The cheques bounced - as the defendant knew they would when she wrote them, and the victim went to the police.'

She was later convicted of obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception on February 2010 and handed a nine-month suspended sentence. She had secured to loans against her mother’s home without her knowledge - which she never repaid.

While on bail, Desai petitioned for bankruptcy and was banned from running a business.

But she continued to sell cheap tickets under a fake name, Nisha Patel, despite serving a suspended sentence, propping the con up with stolen chequebooks.

Desai, of Selhurst, South London, admitted nine charges in total, including five counts of fraud, three counts of handling stolen goods and one count of engaging in business while bankrupt in March.

She is also under investigation by the police after further allegations of fraud emerged last month while awaiting sentence.

It is claimed Desai stole thousands in a honeypot fraud that targeted users of an Asian online dating site, which was exposed by a local paper last month.

One of her alleged victims, a 35-year-old from Leicester, claims he lost his business after being conned out of £35,500.

But a reporter sent to challenge Desai, 33, was himself handed a written warning by police for allegedly ‘harassing’ the criminal.

 'The deals were extraordinary in their scope and attracted a great deal of interest'

Despite protesting that he was just doing his job, he was told by an officer: 'You say you were just doing your job, but that’s what the News of the World and the phone hackers said.'

Jailing her at Croydon Crown Court today, Judge Stephen Waller said her con had netted unwary holidaymakers out for a deal with prices that were 'too good to be true' and left it impossible to run the business.

She tried to keep the business going by taking her victims’ money to pay for new customers, which was 'effectively a Ponzi scheme', he said.

Desai was given a 27 month sentence, with an additional three months to be served consecutively for breaching her previous order.

A confiscation hearing is expected to take place in July.

Speaking outside the court, Detective Counstable Lee Haslett said: 'People need to consider that if an offer seems to good to be true then generally they are.

'Everyone is looking out for a bargain, but they need to be aware of what they are getting themselves into.

'This is a fair sentence, obviously it affected quite a number of people and I’m aware that there is another ongoing investigation.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
