
Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.

Hayek, 47, is the latest celebrity to show support for the 276 schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram terrorists in Nigeria last month.

Meanwhile, US intelligence officials joined African leaders in Paris for a summit on how to battle the Islamic extremist group and rescue the girls.

West African officials agreed to wage “total war” on the militants and approved an action plan to stop the group, which is also blamed for more than 2,000 deaths this year.

“Boko Haram is no longer a local terrorist group. It is operating clearly as an al Qaeda operation. It is an al Qaeda of West Africa,” said Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan after the Paris meeting.

The scene on the red carpet after Vitalii Sediuk tried to slip under the dress of America Ferrera earlier this month.

America Ferrera and Cate Blanchett bond, perhaps over their color-coordinated outfits, at a “How to Train Your Dragon 2″ photocall.

Cate Blanchett and America Ferrera chat at the “How to Train Your Dragon 2″ photocall.

The cast of “How to Train Your Dragon 2″ (Djimon Hounsou, America Ferrera, Kit Harington, Cate Blanchett and Jay Baruchel) and director Dean DeBlois attend a photocall on Thursday.

Zoe Saldana, Pierre Niney and Blake Lively smile for the cameras on the set of  TV show “Le Grand Journal” on Thursday.

Paris Hilton and DJ Alexander wear sunglasses at night — and indoors — at the Belvedere party on Thursday at the VIP Room.

Rooney Mara can barely crack a smile at the Calvin Klein party on Thursday — but that’s normal for the stoic starlet.

Julianne Moore poses at the Calvin Klein Women in Film party.

Julianne Moore charms press and paparazzi at the Calvin Klein Women in Film party on Thursday.

Francisco Costa and Naomi Watts grin at the Calvin Klein Women in Film party on Thursday.

Lupita Nyong’o poses for photographers at the IFP, Calvin Klein Collection and euphoria Calvin Klein Women in Film party on Thursday.

Ryan Reynolds shares a laugh with “Captive” co-stars Rosario Dawson and Mireille Enos at a photocall on Thursday.

Rosario Dawson plants a wet one on “Captive” co-star Mireille Enos at a photocall on Thursday.

Julianne Moore poses for photographers at the premiere of “Mr. Turner” on Thursday.

Julianne Moore arrives for the screening of “Mr. Turner” on Thursday.

Zoe Saldana poses at the “Mr. Turner” premiere on Thursday.

Zoe Saldana keeps it fierce at the premiere of “Mr. Turner” on Thursday.

Blake Lively is radiant on the red carpet for “Mr. Turner” on Thursday.

Blake Lively giggles on the “Mr. Turner” red carpet on Thursday.

Aissa Maiga stuns at the premiere of “Mr. Turner” on Thursday.

Blake Lively shows some leg at the Cannes premiere of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Zoe Saldana arrives at the premiere of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Zoe Saldana poses for photographers at the premiere of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Jin Qiaoqiao poses on the red carpet for the opening ceremony and the screening of “Grace of Monaco” at Cannes on Wednesday.

She’s still got it! Jane Fonda poses for photographers during the opening ceremony and the screening of “Grace of Monaco” at Cannes on Wednesday.

Tim Roth whispers to Nicole Kidman during a photo call for “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Nicole Kidman stays poised amid hordes of paparazzi and press at the Cannes “Grace of Monaco” premiere on Wednesday.

Karlie Kloss strikes a pose at the premiere of “Grace of Monaco” at Cannes on Wednesday.

Kendall Jenner strikes an awkward pose at the “Grace of Monaco” screening at Cannes on Wednesday.

Paz Vega attends the after-party for “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday in Cannes.

Jury members Zhangke Jia, Gael Garcia Bernal, jury president Jane Campion, jury members Nicolas Winding Refn and Willem Dafoe attend the jury photocall during the Cannes Film Festival on May 14.

Gong Li, Laetitia Casta, Blake Lively and Zoe Saldana pose for photographers at the “Grace of Monaco” Cannes premiere on Wednesday.

Zhang Ziyi arrives for the opening ceremony and the screening of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Zhang Ziyi poses for the masses of photographers at the “Grace of Monaco” premiere on Wednesday in Cannes.

Zhang Ziyi poses for photographers as she arrives for the opening ceremony and the screening of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

From left, jury members Sofia Coppola, Leila Hamati, Carole Bouquet, Nicolas Winding Refn, Gael Garcia Bernal, Jane Campion, Jeon Do-yeon, Jia Zhangke and Willem Dafoe pose for photographers on the red carpet for the Cannes opening ceremony and the screening of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Laetitia Casta glows during the opening gala evening at Cannes on Wednesday.

Laetitia Casta poses for photographers on the red carpet for the opening ceremony and the screening of “Grace of Monaco” at Cannes on Wednesday.

Paz Vega and Nicole Kidman share a moment at the premiere of “Grace of Monaco” on Wednesday.

Reality TV princess Kendall Jenner poses on the red carpet at the premiere of “Grace of Monaco” at Cannes on Wednesday.

Blake Lively and Zoe Saldana pose on the red carpet at the premiere of “Grace of Monaco” at Cannes on Wednesday.

Nicole Kidman dances with French actor and emcee Lambert Wilson during the Cannes opening ceremony on Wednesday.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Welcome back!

{* #socialRegistrationForm *}             {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *}             {* socialRegistration_displayName *}             {* socialRegistration_ageVerification *}             By clicking "Create Account", you confirm that you accept our terms of service and have read and understand privacy policy .

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

Create a new password Sent!

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
