
Prime Minister John Key says New Zealand's spy agencies     have provided information to international forces in     Afghanistan that may have been used for American drone strikes.

Mr Key said this afternoon he was ‘‘totally comfortable" with       the Government Communications and Security Bureau (GCSB)       passing on intelligence which led to drone attacks on foreign       soil because it was in the pursuit of ‘‘very bad people".

He was responding to claims by author and film-maker Jeremy       Scahill that, according to documents leaked by former       National Security Agency employee Edward Snowden, New Zealand       was fully aware of the extent of the US drone programme.

Mr Scahill, who is in New Zealand on a speaking tour, told       TV3's The Nation that ‘‘New Zealand, through signal       intercepts, is directly involved with what is effectively an       American assassination programme".

Mr Key told reporters this afternoon that Mr Scahill's claims       were ‘‘completely wrong".

The Prime Minister said he was not briefed about the drone       strike which killed New Zealander Daryl Jones in Yemen last       year.

‘‘I wasn't aware of ... and didn't have any involvement or       prior knowledge of that particular strike.

‘‘What I can say is that New Zealand has internationally in       the past ... gathered information, Afghanistan is an example       of that, and that information is given to ISAF [International       Security Assistance Force].

‘‘What ISAF used that information for and how it's actually       used, I don't know but I can't rule out that that isn't used       for activities undertaken by the Americans."

Asked whether this information could have led to drone       strikes, he said: ‘‘It's possible. I can't rule that out."

He added: ‘‘It would be in the pursuit of trying to hold to       account very bad people."

Mr Scahill also questioned whether Jones was a terrorist,       noting that he was not charged with any crimes.

Mr Key said the killing was justified because Mr Jones was       linked with al-Qaeda and had attended a terrorist training       camp.

He said it was ‘‘not in the national interest" to divulge all       of the cases in which New Zealand intelligence-gathering had       been passed onto international forces, but Afghanistan was       the most obvious example.

‘‘They've from time to time built up information about       particular people of interest and they've supplied that       information now, I'm sure fully with the knowledge that those       people would be pursued."

Mr Key would not respond to speculation that another New       Zealander has been killed in an overseas drone strike.

‘‘I would strongly urge that you don't speculate on that...       As I've said in the past, there are a number of individuals       who have put themselves in a very dangerous position, but       outside that I won't go into great detail."
