
The National Youth Education Network of Liberia and A World at School Global Youth Ambassadors are hosting a massive rally on Monday, May 26, in solidarity of their fellow sisters abducted in Nigeria last month.

Islamist militant group Boko Haram in April captured and kidnapped more than 200 schoolgirls in Nigeria demanding ransom for their release.

The National Youth Education Network of Liberia and the Global Youth Ambassadors are staging the mass rally to present a petition to the Nigerian Government through its embassy near Monrovia calling on the government to take firm actions to bring back the girls.

The rally according to the National Youth Education Network of Liberia is tagged “We want no Barriers to Education” and “Bring Back Our Girls”. The young people said every child has the right to education, protection and freedom and that the kidnapped of the Nigerian schoolgirls is a complete violation of their right.

Article 4 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child mandates all Governments to take full responsibility to take all available measures to make sure children’s rights are respected, protected and fulfilled. When countries ratify the Convention, they agree to review their laws relating to children.

A WORLD AT SCHOOL is a global initiative to mobilize efforts to deliver education and learning to the 57 million children who miss out. It is operated by UK registered charity their world.

The NATIONAL YOUTH EDUCATION NETWORK OF LIBERIA is a conglomeration of youth organizations that are promoting the right to quality education. The network is supervised by the government of Liberia through the Ministry of Education. The network is working closely with the ministry of education to have young people involved in all of their programs and activities.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
