
Urban Outfitters' (NASDAQ: URBN ) namesake brand continues to struggle with its core teen and 20-something customers, as first-quarter results released after Monday's market close showed.

Of the company's three core divisions, Urban Outfitters dragged down overall profit as same-store sales fell 12%. Overall unit sales declined 5.2% from last year's same quarter to $277.7 million, bumping the division from No. 1 to No. 2 in sales behind Anthropologie, which reported a 10.3% increase to $295.8 million.

Per-share profit fell to 26 cents per share vs. 32 cents a year earlier, a penny below analysts' consensus estimate.

Total revenue rose 6% to $686 million, beating views by $6 million, thanks to robust results at Anthropologie and Free People. Smaller but fast-growing Free People saw revenue jump 30.4% to $108.7 million.

But all that wasn't enough to impress investors, who sent shares down nearly 5% in after hours trading.

Gross profit dropped by 209 basis points due mainly to negative comparable sales at the Urban Outfitters brand and pre-opening expenses related to new stores.

"Lower merchandise margins at the Urban Outfitters brand resulting from poor performing product also contributed to the decline," the company said.

CEO Richard Hayne said in the release that the Urban Outfitters division "is working diligently to regain its fashion footing." And in a post-earnings conference call, he said the business is "slowly improving."

But excess inventory remained from the first quarter, which will likely mean more promotional activity in the second quarter, he said.

Hayne said that Urban Outfitters would expand product offerings, including food. A massive three-story Urban Outfitters lifestyle store is slated to open in Manhattan's Herald Square next month, featuring a coffee bar, hair salon and other service-oriented features.

If the company decides to roll out more of those amenity-laden large stores, "it could be an interesting concept, but it's too early to tell if it will work out," said analyst Susan Anderson of FBR & Co.

"I'm concerned about the continued weakness going forward if we see Urban Outfitters continue to weigh down the total," she said.

Both Anthropologie and Free People cater to a somewhat older customer with higher and more disposable incomes than the young Urban Outfitters' customer, Anderson said.

One problem is that teens are spending more on tech gadgets than apparel, she says. Meanwhile, she says, Urban Outfitters faces stiff competition from lower-priced fast-fashion rivals such as H&M and Forever 21, as well as online players.

Anthropologie, which targets women 28 to 45 with a mix of casual wear, home furnishings and gifts, was one of the only brands of 26 retailers checked that was "consistently less promotional," said Morgan Stanley analyst Kimberly Greenberger in a note last week. "Anthro's outstanding performance shows differentiated brands with pitch-perfect assortments can achieve full-price sell-through even in the toughest environments."

Free People sells private-label casual apparel targeted to women 25 to 30 in name-brand stores and at wholesale. It's benefiting from strong wholesale sales (up 27% year-over-year) to department stores such as Macy's (NYSE: M ) and Nordstrom (NYSE: JWN ).

A Chinese-language web site for Free People is set to launch in China this summer, and the company is preparing to open a Free People wholesale venue in mainland China, Hayne said in the conference call.

     Investors.com.

     for free membership on Investors.com.

© 2014 MarketSmith, Incorporated . Charts provided by MarketSmith are used by IBD under license agreement. MarketSmith is a registered trademark of MarketSmith, Incorporated.
