
I am a writer and a staff cartoonist at The New Yorker Magazine and a public speaker. As a cultural envoy for the US State Department, I have traveled to speak about women's rights and freedom of speech. I have spoken at TED, the United Nations, and The New Yorker Festival; and have an honorary Doctorate from University of Connecticut. My cartoons and commentary can also be seen on Medium, CNN.com; Huffington Post, Salon, Daily Beast, The New York Times and The Harvard Business Review. My new book, "Women On Men", was just released.

“The Entrepreneurship Of Everything,” was what Moira Forbes, publisher of Forbes Woman, and the organizers titled the one day event they hosted last week. The second annual Forbes Women’s Summit 2014 was not called a conference, but rather a summit–which might mean that it was held on a mountaintop, which it was not (Park Avenue in New York City), or that it was a gathering of “high-up” people,  whatever that might mean.  It was, in fact, an gathering by invitation only of successful women in many areas;  a variety of women from different career paths and different parts of the world,  all poised to discuss the what and how of entrepreneurship.  Perhaps more interestingly, we also were charged with the task of  discussing the summit hash tag, #redefinepower.

Both of these phrases, “The Entrepreneurship of Everything,” and “Redefining Power,” point to the heart of the problem for women around the globe.  While it’s true that men and women are alike in many ways, we are also different. And we may approach ideas, solutions, systems, interpersonal relationships, work relationships, business environments in different ways.  While there have been  many gains made in women’s rights during the last half centruy, many of those gains, while very important, were surface achievements .

Listening to the speakers and panels of the day, we heard from a wide variety of people who are pushing those boundaries. Ideas do not have to hit viewers over the head, nor does the idea have to be an ego driven demonstration of cleverness. A powerful idea can be quiet, thoughtful and provoke change in the long run. It can offer solutions in an introspective way. But for ideas of this nature to be accepted, the standard of what is considered good has to be opened up.  If you think about the movie business, and wonder why there are not many films of high quality and unique perspective by women and directed by women, it’s not only about studios “allowing” more women in the door. That is part of it. It is also a matter of changing the expectations of what is considered “good.” What a woman may want to create is often not considered to be “important.”  This is a lingering problem in all fields, and it filters down to every woman. If a young girl in Afghanistan wants to go to school to learn to read, the system–i.e. society’s idea of what is right– needs to be changed.

The tone of the gathering was one of desire to help others succeed,  a palpable feeling that embodied the now-famous phrase by former Secretary of State Madeline Albright, “There is a special place in hell for women who do not help other women.”   But there was also an effort to get to the heart of the problem and discuss how to make change in a significant way. During the summit, I tweeted “The world has to think outside of the box. That will allow for more women at the table.”  There were many tweets,  and many great discussions during the day. This gathering of innovative, intelligent and very friendly women that Forbes Woman organized is a step in the right direction towards change.

“No matter what you have gone through, you can still do a lot with what you have.” Veronika Scott, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of The Empowerment Plan.

“We need leaders who are comfortable with ambiguity.” Padmasree Warrior, Cisco Systems.
