
Share This Story!

Three student-focused administrative units at Purdue will merge July 1.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Student employment in food and housing services would be more closely aligned with student success efforts at Purdue University under a merger of three administrative areas due to take place July 1.

Several of Purdue University ’s core administrative units soon will be more closely aligned, a plan that seeks to increase opportunities for students while streamlining the university’s administrative functions.

Starting July 1, undergraduate academic affairs, student affairs, and housing and food services will merge into one organization led by a yet-to-be-chosen senior vice provost. That person will report to incoming Provost Debasish Dutta, who will arrive next month from the University of Illinois.

The move is expected to yield administrative cost savings and is part of Purdue’s implementation of the “ Foundations of Excellence ” plan. The plan calls for refocusing on student success, particularly in students’ early years, with the goal of higher graduation rates and better use of limited resources.

“Through these changes, we will align units that have similar missions, reduce confusion for students, effect more direct impact on student success, and emphasize programs that deliver innovative pedagogies as outlined in our Purdue Moves initiatives,” President Mitch Daniels said in a memo to the  community.

Dale Whittaker, vice provost for undergraduate academic affairs, said the  goal of the restructuring is to remove any remaining barriers between the organizations and to recognize the importance of what happens in residential education as part of the overall learning experience.

Jared Tippets, dean of student success, said collaborations between departments will be better able to take place.

“We have worked closely with many departments over the years, but I’m confident that this new organizational structure will increase synergies and improve our quality of service to students and the faculty,” Tippets said.

Administrators anticipate there will be cost savings as some positions are realigned or eliminated, but they say that hasn’t been the primary focus of the reorganization. Whittaker said it is unknown how many positions will be affected or how much the merger is expected to save.

The changes ahead signal that students will  provide a larger role in administering campus services.

Beth McCuskey, associate vice president for housing and food services, said emerging with the changes will be new opportunities for students to gain experiential learning while employed on campus.

About 3,000 students are hired at Purdue every year, and McCuskey sees an opportunity for them to learn about the real world of employment, even if the job is an entry-level position in a dining court.

“Someone might come in the door at the entry level, but they might be eligible for a promotion down the line,” McCuskey said. “It really comes down to the value-add. You can go to work and clock in and out, but when you can figure out and be able to articulate how you are adding value to an organization, those are the things that employers are looking for.
