
BUDAPEST: Central European currencies and bonds firmed slightly on Monday as risk appetite recovered, partly fuelled by credit rating upgrades in Romania and Ireland.

The region's bonds and the volatile forint currency had sharply retreated on Thursday from the past weeks' robust gains, after news of a controversial Greek capital gains tax triggered a sell-off in debt markets in the European Union's peripheries.

But regional market sentiment started to recover on Friday after Standard & Poor's upgraded Romania's debt to investment grade, and improved further on Monday with Irish bonds firming after Moody's lifted the country's rating by two notches.

The yield on Romanian 9-year bonds, of which there will be a government auction on Monday, dropped 2 basis points in the secondary market to 4.78 percent. ING Bank economist Mihai Tantaru said the paper had lagged last week's 5 to 10 basis point downward shift in most Romanian yields.

"While we think the downtrend in short-term rates is to continue, the focus today will likely fall on the long-dated leu paper space, as the finance ministry plans to tap 400 million lei of 9-year T-bonds today," Tantaru said.

"In the aftermath of the recent strong results at long-term leu paper tenders, we think today's instrument will sell for the planned amount at a maximum yield slightly below 4.80 percent," he added.

Poland's 10-year bond yields shed 2 basis points to 3.76 percent. Traders said there was probably not much further room for falls, even though last week's retreat chipped off some of the gains after a decline in the yield to the lowest for almost a year.

"Bonds are still quite expensive and I think that after recent gains we can expect a temporary correction," one Warsaw-based dealer said.

Hungarian bonds were flat from last week, after a plunge in yields to record lows at an auction on Thursday and a subsequent 20 basis point upwards correction in the sell-off wave triggered by the reports on the Greek tax.

Demand for the bonds had been fuelled by changes in the Hungarian central bank's toolkit, on top of increased hunger for yield in Europe in recent months. Primary debt supply may also change as the government has said it planned to shift towards forint rather than foreign currency debt issues.

"The (government debt management agency) AKK may announce its revised financing plan this week: I don't expect any big movement until we see those plans," one Budapest-based trader said.

The forint firmed 0.2 percent against the euro to 304.65, towards four-month highs at 302.4 tested before Thursday's retreat.

Croatia's kuna was steady as the country started a roadshow in European capitals for a planned international bond sale worth around 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion).
