
One of the founders of the Charleston School of Law is willing to continue financially supporting the school if the InfiLaw System does not receive licensing approval.

Ed Westbrook — who founded the school in 2002 along with Robert Carr, George Kosko, Alex Sanders and Ralph McCullough — said the Charleston School of Law was never created to become a part of a national consortium. He said it was meant to be a law school that would draw support from the community.

“We were going to be teaching students at the highest caliber to perform public service, and we were not going to be in it, at least at my estimation, for the almighty dollar,” Westbrook said Friday during a public hearing held by the S.C. Commission on Higher Education’s Committee on Academic Affairs and Licensing.

The commission is in the process of deciding whether InfiLaw will be approved to purchase and operate the school. The panel asked for public comments on Friday in North Charleston and today in West Columbia. The American Bar Association must also approve the sale.

Westbrook said he, Carr and Kosko — Sanders and McCullough have retired — have had a difference of opinion over the past nine months about the future of the school.

Carr and Kosko have announced that they, too, intend to retire.

Westbrook said an alternative future is possible for the law school. He told the commission that he’s willing to continue the school without his co-founders.

Carr and Kosko both spoke during the North Charleston session about why they think InfiLaw should be granted a license.

“The school has improved lives; the school has improved Charleston, improved the state, it’s improved our noble and honorable profession. There is so much more that this school can do, but not with me,” said Carr, who intends to retire as soon as the regulatory process is concluded, to spend more time with his aging mother, who recently moved from New Orleans to Charleston.

Kosko said selling the school to InfiLaw will improve bar exam passage rates in the area.

About 25 representatives from both sides spoke out about the commission’s pending decision. Most of the Charleston School of Law administration, faculty members, Student Bar Association members, honors organization representatives and alumni who spoke favored a denial of InfiLaw’s request for a license.

The Committee on Academic Affairs and Licensing is holding a special meeting at 2 p.m. today in Columbia to consider InfiLaw’s application for licensure.

Bettie Rose Horne, chairwoman of the committee, said Friday’s hearing was the first time in her 10 years on the committee that so many people showed an interest in one subject.

“Broad amount of interest and the strong opinions that we’ve had across the continuum suggested that in addition to receiving written opinions, it would behoove us to have the public hearings,” Horne said.

Licensure is a three-step process. Materials are submitted to staff members on the commission by the company requesting a license; staff members then make a recommendation to a subcommittee, the Commission on Academic Affairs and Licensing; and the subcommittee makes a recommendation to the full commission.

Staff members already recommended that the commission approve the InfiLaw licensure. Horne said the commission will make a decision at its next meeting, June 5.

Reach staff writer Ashley Barker at 843-849-3144 or @AshleyNBarker on Twitter.
