
Evil British hate preacher Abu Hamza faces dying in prison after being found guilty of terrorism in the US.

After two days of deliberations the hook handed cleric was convicted of all 11 charges against him following a six week trial.

He will now held in prison until he is sentenced in September and faces life in prison.

The 56-year-old imam from London’s radical Finsbury Park Mosque went on trial last month after a 10 year battle by American authorities to extradite him to the States.

In Manhattan Federal Court he was convicted over his role in the 1998 kidnapping in Yemen of 16 foreign tourists, of whom four were killed, and of conspiring to set up a militant training camp in Bly, Oregon in late 1999.

Hamza was also found guilty of providing material support to bin Laden's terror network, of wanting to set up a computer lab for the Taliban and sending recruits for terror training in Afghanistan.

He now faces life in a supermax prison in America.

Talking about the American terror training camp, he said Hamza had sent two British jihadists to the US to create a base.

“During the fall of 1999, two men were sent on a mission,” said Mr Kim.

Pointing at Hamza, who was dressed in a light blue T-shirt and grey jogging bottoms, he then said: “They were sent by this man, their leader.

“The purpose of their mission was simple, to establish a training camp for terror. To learn how to fight, to kill.

“There they were armed with knives, pistols and rifles. They learnt how to slit a person’s throat.

“Abu Hamza’s cause was war. It was all consuming to him.

“He preached at the Finsbury Park Mosque in London.

“The Mosque was Hamza’s headquarters for global export of violence and terror .

“It was here he recruited men, is it here he indoctrinated them and that is was from here he deployed men around the world.

“He did not just talk the talk, but he also walked the walk.

“Abu Hamza was not just a preacher of religion he was a trainer of terrorists.

The case later heard how Hamza, while serving seven years in British prison for soliciting murder and inciting racial hatred, was found with a bomb making handbook inside his cell at high security Belmarsh Prison in London.

The jury had been told how the father-of-seven sent two men to Afghanistan for jihad training in 2001.

“The men were sent by Abu Hamza to carry out a detailed plan,” said Mr Kim.

“Abu Hamza kept in touch with them while they were in Bly.

“They had been sent from London.

“They carried knives and guns and also carried out armed patrols on a night.

She later investigated the reasons why her tour group was attacked and discovered that radicals wanted to swop tourists for terror suspects who had been arrested including the son and stepson of Hamza.

She later travelled to London where she tracked down Hamza at the Mosque and demanded he answered her questions to which he agreed.

He admitted to the knowing about the kidnapping which was recorded by New Zealander Quin and used in evidence against him.

Four hostages were killed during a shootout between the kidnappers and Yemen military, two of whom were British.

During the trial Hamza’s former disciple, Saajid Badat, also testified against his former leader after turning supergrass.

The Egyptian-born eyed cleric was initially indicted in the US ten years ago before losing his last appeal in the European Court of Human Rights against extradition in 2012.

He moved to London aged 21 to study engineering before he became an anti-west preacher at the Finsbury Park Mosque.

Prosecutors say hook-handed Hamza had preached that "everybody was happy at the 9/11 attacks"

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
