
Johannesburg - A State witness on Monday pointed to Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir as the man who poured boiling water over his head.

Bheki Lukhele, who was kidnapped from his Katlehong home on June 25 last year, allegedly by Krejcir and his five co-accused, was sworn in at the Johannesburg High Court, sitting in Palm Ridge, on Monday morning.

When prosecutor Louis Mashiane asked if he could remember who poured water over him, Lukhele said yes.

“It is the gentleman over there wearing a white suit,” he said.

Lukhele stood up and pointed at Krejcir, who was wearing a light suit with a white shirt.

Lukhele told the court how the men kidnapped and assaulted him when he could not tell them where his brother was. He described how he was taken from his Katlehong house on June 25, forced into a car, blindfolded and driven away. Later he was taken into a room and made to sit on the floor facing the wall.

“They were kicking me on my stomach and on the side of my torso,” he said.

One of the men kicked him in his neck. He was slapped. Someone told him in English that his brother robbed him of his money and that he was looking for him and his money, the court heard.

He said when the blindfold was taken off, he could see a man with a white kettle who again asked where his brother was.

“I told him that I don't know and then he poured the water over my head,” Lukhele said.

Lukhele said he was bleeding inside his mouth.

He was held until June 29 and guarded day and night, he said.

Lukhele's brother, Doctor, worked for a cargo company at OR Tambo International Airport. He apparently disappeared with 25kg of crystal methamphetamine (tik) he was supposed to help transport to Australia, allegedly for Krejcir.

He was allegedly held at Krejcir's Money Point gold exchange business in Bedfordview, Johannesburg, in June last year.

Krejcir's co-accused are Desai Luphondo, warrant officers Samuel Modise Maropeng and George Nthoroane, Jan Lefu Mofokeng, and Siboniso Miya. All have pleaded not guilty to charges of dealing in drugs, attempted murder, and kidnapping.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
