
Police investigating a series of crashes involving Troy Buswell were unable to locate the then WA treasurer before seeing a newspaper picture of him in Busselton, a parliamentary committee has heard.

The Community, Development and Justice Standing Committee, which is dominated by Labor MPs, is reviewing the police investigation into the Liberal MP's actions in the early hours of February 23, when he crashed his car into several others in Subiaco.

Last month, Mr Buswell was fined and disqualified from driving for a year after pleading guilty to 11 offences related to the incident.

He also resigned from Cabinet after suffering what was described at the time as a breakdown.

Detective Senior Sergeant Brian Hunter today told the hearing that police had tried to contact Mr Buswell several times before his lawyer rang to say the former treasurer would not be participating in an interview.

The hearing has been told that Buswell's former chief of staff Rachael Turnseck was very "measured and guarded" when giving evidence to police.

Detective Hunter said Ms Turnseck gave evidence with her lawyer present.

Ms Turnseck told police she left the wedding about 11:00pm, after speaking to Mr Buswell, who told her he planned to walk home.

Sergeant Hunter told the hearing there was no suggestion Ms Turnseck had tried to assist Mr Buswell in concealing evidence of the incident.

MPs were also told that a driver tasked with dropping wedding guests home offered Mr Buswell a lift, but that he said he would walk home.

Police Commissioner Karl O'Callaghan has also been grilled by the committee over why officers failed to pursue drink-driving charges against the former treasurer.

The committee has heard police responded to a call about the events within 10 minutes, and Mr O'Callaghan said he was not sure the response "could have been any better".

MPs were told police officers spent nine minutes at Mr Buswell's house.

They could see minor damage to the fence but the house was dark, and they had no legal right to enter property.

His car was parked in the carport.

MPs also heard the incident was listed under the category "317" - which is code for driving under the influence.

The committee's chair, Labor MP Margaret Quirk, quizzed Mr O'Callaghan on why police failed to follow up any potential drink-driving charge, despite the fact the job was listed under job code 317.

She questioned whether that failure sent a "terrible message" to drink drivers, that if they "laid low" they could escape penalties.

Mr O'Callaghan told the hearing as long as he has been a police officer, people have been "locking themselves inside" to avoid punishment.

The hearing was also told there may have been possible oversight by the police assistance call centre on the night of Mr Buswell's crashes.

The officer in charge of the centre, Superintendant Lance Martin, told the hearing the person who took the call failed to check the car registration against the police database, labelling it a potential "oversight".

The hearing continues.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
