
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.

Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.

For more information about placing obituaries, click here .

The Air Force’s top general appeared to be losing his cool. But it wasn’t over a controversial plan to scrap an aircraft prized for protecting ground troops or billions of dollars in cuts that are straining a service striving to recover from the grind of 12 years of war.

The controversy represents the latest chapter in the Air Force’s years-long struggle to balance the constitutional right of freedom of faith with the Constitution’s prohibition on the governmental promotion of religion.

The Air Force defends the regulation as a measure that “seems to make good sense.” Yet the pressure _ legislation, congressional hearings, meetings, letters, media statements and online appeals _ to revise or dump it is having an impact.

The prospect alarms supporters of the policy, who say a pro-Christian bias in the Air Force remains overwhelming and that the regulation provides an avenue of relief to service members who object to being regaled with their superiors’ religious views or who worry that declining invitations to “voluntary” Bible classes might jeopardize their fitness reports and chances of promotion.

The regulation has been “an umbrella in a tsunami of Christian fundamentalist extremism,” asserted Mikey Weinstein, the head of the Military Religious Freedom Foundation and a former Air Force officer whose outspokenness has won him scorn and death threats.

Since the regulation went into effect, 4,121 Air Force personnel have sought the organization’s help in fending off proselytizing by superiors, Weinstein said. The organization has a 95 percent “success rate” in ending “the offending behavior,” he said. Evangelical Christians draw the largest number of complaints _ ironically enough, from fellow Christians, he said.

The regulation grew out of a 2005 uproar over proselytizing by evangelical Christians and Weinstein’s allegations of religious discrimination at the U.S. Air Force Academy, at Colorado Springs, Colo.

Since then, the Air Force has worked hard “at balancing . . . free expression of religion with the needs of the military and not giving the appearance or an actuality of forcing anything or appearing to force,” James told the Senate committee.

Not so, said Perkins of the Family Research Council, which issued a report in March that included a long list of alleged incidents ranging from officers ordered to remove Bibles from their desks to retaliation against personnel for expressing opposition to same-sex marriage. The most recent example cited at recent congressional hearings concerned an Air Force Academy cadet who was ordered to remove a biblical verse from a white board he’d hung on his hallway door.

“The Air Force for some reason has done the worst in terms of violating the religious freedom of its personnel,” Perkins charged. The result has been a “chilling effect” on leaders’ rights to religious expression, he said.

Military culture, however, is very different from the civilian world, the regulation’s defenders responded. The services are closed, clannish and hierarchical, and in such an atmosphere a commander’s exhortation to follow his or her beliefs or an invitation to a voluntary prayer circle can be perceived as tantamount to an order.

To illustrate the point, Weinstein said his organization had received 17 complaints _ all from Protestants _ in early May after a commander at an Air Force base left invitations to a “Purity Ball” _ a religious, high school prom-like event attended by fathers and daughters _ on the chairs of three senior subordinates. The girls take vows to refrain from premarital sex.

The subordinates “understood that they had to distribute the invitations. They distributed them to 212 people,” said Weinstein, who declined to identify the base, the commander or the complainants because of confidentiality considerations.

When one of the complainants confronted the commander with the no-proselytizing regulation, the commander refused to rescind the invitations but agreed not to distribute them next year, Weinstein said.

The commander, he added, declined to issue a statement acknowledging that his action violated the regulation because his superior would see it.

is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.
