
First photos of the facelifted Chinese-market Chevrolet Aveo , better known to you and me as the Chevrolet Sonic , have been released. The GM B-segment hatchback and sedan has been given a makeover that is reminiscent of its new big brother, the Cruze .

At the front, there is a new, narrow-set grille (the bow tie logo has moved up from in between the upper and lower grilles), a trapezoidal lower grille with integrated bumper bar, downturned chrome accents around the fog light surrounds and more conventional headlights that replace the exposed motorcycle-inspired pods on the previous model. Slim side indicators have been integrated into the wing mirrors.

Meanwhile, the circular tail light and indicator/reverse light combo has been ditched for a cleaner, more conventional look. The number plate holder has also been redesigned, while the rear bumper has been revised and now features a black valence piece. A new eight-spoke wheel design completes the makeover.

No interior images have been shown just yet, but a peek through the windscreen reveals a new cowl for the instrument panel, which means the funky bike-esque binnacle of the current car could also be replaced. No technical details either, but expect the current engines – Ecotec units ranging from 1.2 to 1.8 litres (ours is a 1.4) – and five-speed manual and six-speed automatic transmissions to soldier on.

There are plenty more options out there for Korean cars.

I once looked at a Orlando as a viable replacement for our aging Citra, but it did not offer the “mandatory” safety equipment nor offer a significant efficiency upgrade over the current car.

i am sorry but i think unless chevy managed to solve the “identity crisis” it is having now, i don’t see a point why people should opt for chevy cars over some more exciting japanese or korean cars, or even european ones.

chevy should incorporate more of its american root into the design and feature of the car, and not trying to come up with something that they think is more “commonly accepted”. it’s all about unique selling points these days, folks! if you keep featuring those “blah” designs and features, people are gonna move away from you.
