
BOGOTA, Colombia -- An overcrowded bus carrying young people home from a church service caught fire on a street in a northern city Sunday, and at least 32 children were killed, authorities said.

The regional police chief, Col. Adan Leon, said 18 people, including some adults, had been found alive at the disaster in the city of Fundacion, which is about 465 miles north of Bogota. He said information was not complete and he warned that the death toll could rise.

Leon said most of the estimated 50 people on the bus were younger than 14. "That adds to the tragedy," he said.

BAGHDAD -- A series of attacks in Iraq, mainly bombings targeting markets and commercial streets, killed 14 people Sunday, officials said.

Police officials said the deadliest attack took place shortly before sunset when a bomb exploded at an outdoor market in the town of Mahmoudiya, killing four people and wounding 12.

DAMASCUS, Syria -- The head of Syria's air defenses was killed in clashes near the capital, Damascus, a government official and activists said Sunday, one of a few high-ranking military officers to be killed in the country's 3-year-old civil war.

Lt. Gen. Hussein Ishaq's death might boost morale for those fighting against President Bashar Assad's government, as they've faced setbacks and surrendered territory over the past year.

Ishaq was one of the highest-ranking members of the Syrian army, said military analyst Hisham Jaber, a retired brigadier general in the Lebanese military.

CAIRO -- A homemade bomb has exploded at an election rally for Egyptian presidential candidate Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, wounding four people, including two policemen, the official news agency reported.

El-Sissi, the front-runner in the May 26-27 vote, was not at the rally in the Cairo district of Ezbet el-Nakhl when the bomb went off late Saturday.

SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea's president said today she will push to disband the coast guard in the wake of last month's ferry disaster that left more than 300 people dead or missing, calling its rescue operations after the disaster a failure.

The coast guard has been under growing public criticism over its alleged poor search and rescue work after the ferry Sewol sank on April 16. Most of the victims were students from a single high school near Seoul who were traveling to the southern tourist island of Jeju.

TH Media’s mission is to be the preferred provider of local news, information and advertising content in the markets we serve.
