
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

MOSCOW--President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian troops involved in exercises near the Ukrainian border to return to base--again--and called anew on Monday for Ukraine's government to withdraw its military from the restive east.

The North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Obama administration were skeptical, however, saying they have yet to see evidence of any drawdown of Russian troops despite a series of similar claims from the Kremlin.

Russia has been conducting military exercises on and off for the past few months, intensifying tensions with both Kiev and the West, and has sent conflicting signals about its troop presence at the border.

The latest announcement, real or not, was consistent with a softer line from the Kremlin in recent days as Ukraine's presidential election, set for Sunday, nears.

Both the U.S. and Europe have warned of more sanctions if Russia interferes with the vote, the first since an uprising based in western Ukraine toppled the pro-Russian government last winter.

Yet after rapidly annexing Ukraine's Crimea region in March, Russia has appeared less eager to take over two other separatist regions in eastern Ukraine. Also, the front-runner in the election, Petro Poroshenko, hasn't been as anti-Russian in his rhetoric as other candidates, suggesting that Moscow could be willing to engage with him.

The Kremlin on Monday said Mr. Putin had ordered troops in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions of Russia to return to their bases now that planned military exercises are over.

The Russian stock market rose on the news to its highest level since March 3, when Russia authorized an increase in the number of its troops in the Crimean region.

But Anders Fogh Rasmussen, secretary-general of NATO, signaled deep skepticism about such statements coming from Moscow.

"I think it's the third Putin statement on withdrawal of Russian troops, but so far we haven't seen any withdrawal at all," Mr. Rasmussen said. "I strongly regret that, because a withdrawal of Russian troops would be a first important contribution to de-escalating the crisis."

The White House echoed his concerns.

"I think it's fair to say that we would know and would be able to confirm for you if the Russian military had in fact moved back, deployed away from the Ukrainian border, but we have not yet seen any indication that that's the case," press secretary Jay Carney told reporters in Washington.

A senior U.S. official, briefing reporters on Vice President Joe Biden's trip this week to Romania and Cyprus, said Moscow has maintained "significant forces" along the border "in a menacing posture."

However, U.S. military officials, who have monitored the location and activities of the Russian forces using satellite imagery, signaled they were hopeful that Mr. Putin could be serious this time.

Over the last couple weeks, the forces have engaged in maneuvers but those movements have wound down in recent days, said Col. Steve Warren, the Pentagon's chief spokesman. Instead, he said the Russian troops have been remaining inside their camps.

While there had not been indications of a troop pullback on Monday, Col. Warren said, "we do realize it would take up to 24 hours for movement to begin so we are watching closely."

Mr. Putin also reiterated a call for Kiev to pull back on what it calls an antiterrorist operation in eastern Ukraine to oust the pro-Russian separatists who have taken over several cities and sought to declare independence.

"Russia is calling for immediate cessation of the punitive operation, violent acts and withdrawal of troops as well as a resolution to all the accumulated problems by exclusively peaceful means," the Kremlin said.

Early Monday a shooting near the city of Slovyansk, a pro-Russian stronghold, resulted in a death and several casualties among government soldiers, the Defense Ministry said on its website.

Pro-Russian separatists confirmed to the Russian news agency Interfax that the shooting took place.

Interfax cited a separatist as saying that they saw a buildup of government forces near Slovyansk, suggesting that Kiev wasn't scaling down its effort.

Two Ukrainian regions voted to become independent on May 11, but Russia has been evasive about its next steps. Alexei Makarkin, an analyst at the Center for Political Technologies, a Moscow think tank, said the Kremlin may be waiting for Sunday's presidential vote, even though it has criticized them as premature.

"Russia is unlikely to accept the results of the elections as fully legitimate," he said. But Russia "will admit that those results are more legitimate than Ukraine's current authorities and they will thus have someone they can talk to."

Russia has called the new government in Ukraine illegitimate since it took over after President Viktor Yanukovych, a Kremlin ally from eastern Ukraine, fled the capital in late February.

Russia is calling for changes to Ukraine's constitution that would transform the country into a federation, making each region more self-governing.

Kiev has offered to devolve some power but fears that broad federalization would give pro-Russian regions veto power over major decisions.

Ukraine began the first of a planned series of round table talks last week, though it pointedly didn't invite representatives of the rebels. The push for talks has been at the forefront of Western efforts to defuse the crisis.

Russia's Foreign Ministry has blasted the Kiev government for not being inclusive, but Mr. Putin also said he welcomed the first contacts between Kiev and supporters of Ukrainian federalization, according to the Kremlin statement.

Separately, a Kremlin spokesman told the state news agency Itar-Tass that Mr. Putin will meet with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to discuss the crisis in Ukraine during a visit to China on Tuesday.

As Russia's ties with the West have been strained, it has been increasingly turning to Asia. Mr. Putin said in an interview with Chinese media on Monday that Russia will be trying to more than double its trade volume with China to $200 billion by 2020.

Naftali Bendavid and Carol E. Lee contributed to this article.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
