
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BAY CITY, MI — Prior to the start of a Bay City Commission meeting last month, four commissioners snapped a photo in the chambers that caught the attention of at least one other city leader.

Commissioners Jim Irving, 5th Ward; Lori Dufresne, 4th Ward; Andrew Niedzinski, 3rd Ward; and Kerice Basmadjian, 7th Ward; gathered for a group photo to be used in promotional materials for the Bay County Democratic Party. All four commissioners are members of the political organization.

At the time, the commissioners thought nothing of the photo.

"We had someone take it on an iPhone," Basmadjian said. "It was just a quick photo."

But Commissioner Lynn Stamiris, 1st Ward, said it was inappropriate. He approached the group and said they shouldn't be taking group photos in the City Commission's meeting place, describing it as the city's "sacred, nonpartisan chambers."

"It's not right," Stamiris said. "They can do those types of things outside the chambers and on their own time, but I told them we're a nonpartisan commission. We can't have that kind of stuff going on."

In the past month, members of the Bay City Commission have been spotted at partisan events, supporting candidates and causes. Some members hold, or have held offices for local political organizations. One actually makes a living supporting a Democratic lawmaker's re-election campaign.

Ask Commissioner Irving if he has political ties and he's quick to respond that he's a proud Democrat. The 71-year-old commissioner who's serving his second and final term, said he ran his election as a Democrat, in support of Bay City's unions and bringing back the prevailing wage.

"I always thought our election should be partisan," he said. "People are going to lean one way or the other, there's no doubt about that. It's always been that way, especially in Bay City, so why pretend like it's not there?"

Even when his term is done next year, Irving said he plans to actively recruit Democrats to fill his role and the other nine seats on the commission.

"That's the way politics work," he said. "The goal is to get one side to get their point across and get the support for it."

The Bay County Democratic Party is also interested in getting its members on the City Commission. In a February 2013 post on its Facebook page, the organization published that it was "looking for Democratic candidates to run for Bay City Commissioner in Districts one and three."

Niedzinski is a 28-year-old in his first year on the City Commission. He holds a degree from Saginaw Valley State University in political science, calling politics a passion of his.

Since graduating from college in 2012, he's been employed by the Michigan Democratic Party as a field representative, and currently holds a similar position on the re-election campaign for Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint Township.

He, too, ran a campaign going door-to-door, letting his future constituents know that he is a Democrat, a decision that likely got him votes he said, but may have jeopardized his nonpartisan status on the commission.

"The issue is, when I told people that I'm a Democrat, a lot of them thought I was going to do what the labor union wanted me do," he said.  "They need to know that I got elected by the constituents of the 3rd Ward, and I represent them and what's best for the city, not necessarily for the union."

As for his public affiliation with the Democratic Party — he previously served as the treasurer for the Bay County Young Democrats organization — Niedzinski doesn't think it impacts the integrity of the nonpartisan commission.

"Being a Democrat doesn't (prevent) me from representing my constituents," he said. "It's something that I'm a part of. Some people are in Rotary Club because they're passionate about volunteering. I'm in politics because I'm passionate about that, and that's why I earned a degree in political science."

Basmadjian, who is also in her first term, currently serves as the secretary for the Bay County Democratic Party. While she prefers the fact that the City Commission is a nonpartisan body, she said it's hard to escape the political realities of an election.

"When I was knocking on doors, the first thing people ask me is if I'm a Republican or a Democrat," she said. "I would tell them, 'Well, this is a nonpartisan election,' and they would reply, 'Are you a Republican or a Democrat?'

"I would then tell them I'm a Democrat, and they said, 'Good. You've got my vote.' "

Last month, Basmadjian spoke in support of Democratic gubernatorial candidate Mark Schauer, while he made a campaign stop in downtown Bay City.

While Basmadjian doesn't try to hide her political affiliations — she says if people scroll through her Facebook page, "it's pretty obvious what my affiliations are" — she said there hasn't been any political pressure from local organizations.

One of Basmadjian's first big votes came in January when selecting a new city manager. The two finalists were Rick Finn, a candidate from Upstate New York who eventually landed the job, and David White, a Bay City native some believed has ties with the Bay County Democratic Party.

Irving didn't like Finn's take on the prevailing wage and the $160,000 salary he made in Peekskill, N.Y., and voted against him. Niedzinski followed suit, saying his choice was due to Finn's high asking price. He also liked that White had hometown ties to Bay City.

Basmadjian, and six other commissioners, voted to hire Finn.

"I was actually surprised that the chair of the Bay County Democrats didn't give me a call prior to the vote," she said. "After the election, he told me he didn't want me to feel pressured, being that this was a big vote, which I really appreciated. I felt, and still feel today, that Mr. Finn was our best candidate for the job."

In the 1970s, White, who is a registered independent, worked for State Rep. Jim Barcia, a longtime Bay County Democrat. He says it's his father's involvement with the Bay County Democratic Party that may have prompted Bay City residents and City Commissioners to think he was involved with the party.

White says his father, Clair A. White, who worked as a teacher at Bay City Central High School and was on the Board of Trustees at Michigan State University, was active in the local Democratic party in the 1940s and remained involved until he died in the 1980s.

"He was the gadfly of the party," said White, who has never held an office with the Bay County Democratic Party. "He was very active, and if he didn't like you, he was honest and would tell you that. There was no middle ground with him.

"As for my political affiliation, I'm a seed of my father, but that's the extent of it.

"I was disappointed I wasn't selected. I thought my skills could help my hometown, but I wish Rick (Finn) good luck and will provide any help I can to Bay City."

It's not just Democrats on the City Commission who are open about their political ties, although the more conservative members haven't gone door-to-door during election season campaigning that they are proud Republicans.

Mayor Christopher Shannon, who is also elected as a nonpartisan official, says he isn't a registered member of any political party and never has been, but tends to lean more to the right on issues.

When asked if Bay City should have a partisan commission, he points to George Washington's farewell address that warns governments of going down the road of political parties.

"He warned future generations not to embrace that model, and I think we need to follow that advice more so than ever today," he said. "If we were a partisan commission, who knows what could happen, but I feel like there would be a lot of pitting one against the other."

Last month, at the Bay County Republican's Lincoln Day dinner, where Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette was the keynote speaker, Shannon was seen wearing stickers in support of State Sen. Mike Green, R-Mayville. He says he's not ashamed to support the Republican lawmaker because "he's worked very hard for Bay City."

"If there's someone, regardless of political party, that we can have as an ally, you better believe I'm going to embrace and support that person," he said.

"The thing is, I don't get a lot of invitations from that side," he said.

Commissioners Chad Sibley, 8th Ward, and Elizabeth Peters, 2nd Ward, were also at the Lincoln Day dinner. Sibley said he attended because Shannon had an extra ticket to the event and he wanted an opportunity to speak with Schuette. Peters said she attends events for both parties.

Partisan city councils are rare nationwide. Of the 30 most populated cities in the country, 20 are nonpartisan. The remaining 10 cities, including New York, Chicago, Houston and Philadelphia, are partisan, according to the National League of Cities.

In Michigan, it's even more rare, with only three cities — Ann Arbor, Ionia and Ypsilanti — having partisan city councils.

According to the NLC, political parties are irrelevant when it comes to providing city services, a key role as an elected city official.

But the absence of party labels can confuse voters, according to the organization. Many times, a constituent must vote for a candidate that he or she knows nothing about, so having the political affiliation can help that person make a more educated vote.

Bill Mathewson, general council for the Michigan Municipal League, said there is some truth to the idea of a party affiliation helping identify what kind of candidate is up for election, but argues that political parties at the local level can also add a layer of confusion.

"In places like Ann Arbor, there are candidates who ran as Democrats, but those (political affiliations) don't always link up with the label," he said. "Instead of having Democrats and Republicans, you may now have an array of Democrats. Some would say that's artificial."

Mathewson also says city residents could be skeptical when voting in an election that runs along party lines.

"They might react in a negative way, because they can more clearly see those politics play out," he said.

Finn, on the job as Bay City's manager since mid-March, said he worked for a partisan commission at his last job in Peekskill, N.Y., and described it as a "huge headache."

"The whole idea of a partisan city council fosters division," he said. "My personal opinion is that working with independents makes for a better operation."

As for members of Bay City's Commission having open political beliefs and some serving on boards of political organizations, Finn says it doesn't bother him, as long as it doesn't bleed over into the work place — the Commission Chambers.

"As long as they have the best interest of the city, that's what it's all about," he said.

Most of Bay City's Commissioners agree that the commission should remain nonpartisan.

"I strongly believe that we need to try and work in a nonpartisan way," said Peters. "I do question, though, if a candidate has a strong backing of a party, how they can be nonpartisan in their decision making."

Sibley, who describes himself as an independent, agrees. He points to Niedzinski's affiliation with the Democratic Party, saying he needs to be careful in his duties as a commissioner.

"He's a great kid, but we should all truly be non-partisan," Sibley said. "What I see sometimes is that the Democrats have one issue — the prevailing wage — and that's the only thing they're voting on. I hate that."

If the Bay City Commission were to ever switch to a partisan body, it would require a change in the city's charter. That kind of change couldn't happen until 2017.

Most City Commissioners agree that making that type of change in the charter is a long shot. "It was nonpartisan by design in the charter," said Commissioner Christopher Girard, 6th Ward, who describes himself as a moderate.

Charles Congdon, a Bay City resident who makes a point of attending as many meetings as possible, said he'd have a hard time supporting the idea of a partisan commission.

"Sure, you can tell what side some people are on, but I think if we made it partisan, you'd see more special interests in play," he said.

As for the photo snapped last month, Irving admits it wasn't the best idea.

"I never really thought about it at the time, but we probably could have taken it elsewhere," he said. "My thought was, the different partisan groups take similar photos in Lansing. You go with the group, that's the way it is."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
