
Beijing, China (4E) – A chartered plane flew 290 Chinese workers out of Vietnam and back to China Sunday afternoon as part of an ongoing evacuation of Chinese workers in the neighboring country following anti-Chinese violence there last week.

The first of five Chinese ships that will evacuate more Chinese workers in Vietnam also started sailing Sunday from China, the Chinese Ministry of Transport said.

Some 3,000 Chinese workers employed at Chinese-owned factories or construction projects in Vietnam have been evacuated from Vietnam as of Saturday following the attacks and burning of at least 15 factories owned by Chinese, Taiwanese and South Korean investors in several Vietnamese industrial parks. The Chinese workers in factories and construction sites were attacked by locals in protest to China’s oil drilling in the territorial waters of Vietnam.

The 290 Chinese evacuees arrived in the southwestern Chinese city of Chengdu on Sunday afternoon, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said. Two chartered planes of China Southern Airlines organized by the Chinese government flew the evacuees, including 16 badly injured workers, who were taken to the Sichuan Provincial People’s Hospital for treatment of concussions, bone fractures and other injuries.

Two Chinese nationals have been killed and more than 100 others were injured in the deadly anti-China riots in Vietnam last week. One of the fatalities was killed Wednesday during a brawl at a Taiwanese steel mill in Ha Tinh Province in central Vietnam.

Vietnamese police in southern and central Vietnam arrested more than 1,000 people who took part in the riots. In Dong Nai province, 302 people were arrested for committing arson, looting and inciting riots in industrial parks. Of the detainees, 224 were charged with causing public disorder, robbery and property damage.

Meanwhile, China’s Foreign Ministry announced Sunday the suspension of some bilateral exchange between the two countries in response to the attacks on Chinese nationals and factories in Vietnam. Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei also said Chinese nationals were warned from traveling to Vietnam.

The Vietnam Fisheries Surveillance Department said on Saturday that 119 Chinese ships of various kinds, including coast guard ships, warships, refuelling ships and fishing vessels, have surrounded the Haiyang Shiyou-981 oil rig in Vietnamese waters in the waters near the disputed Paracel islands, which is being claimed by China, Vietnam and other countries. A Vietnamese fishing boat operating near the rig was reportedly captured by a Chinese ship on Friday and its crew were beaten.
