
WESLACO — More than a year of litigation by the city of Weslaco is beginning to shake loose some details of the acquisition of Knapp Medical Center by Prime Healthcare — and city leaders said they confirm fears the hospital was undervalued and harmed by the deal.

The city sued Knapp, California-based Prime and the major players in their leadership after the January 2013 sale, claiming the deal was a sham and seeking its details.

The city has some pull over the private hospital via obscure restrictions in a decades-old property deed that requires Knapp remain nonprofit — a provision Weslaco used to halt a 2012 sale to South Texas Health System. The city has also helped the hospital obtain some $56 million in tax-free bonds.

Movement in the lawsuit has been slow the last 16 months as Knapp leaders have shied away from releasing documents without strict confidentiality provisions. City leaders have refused to sign those, saying they believe the information should be public.

Hospital leaders have still not allowed any copies to be made of related documents, but did allow Mary Ibarra-Myers, an attorney for the city, to view some 4,000 pages last month.

What she reported back to city leaders left them alarmed.

She said the hospital’s balance sheet at the time of the sale was some $167 million, but that Prime had paid only about $23 million to acquire it. That money, along with some $80 million of the hospital’s assets, had been transferred to a newly created foundation called the Knapp Community Cares Foundation.

The foundation retained those assets to support the hospital’s operation while the hospital itself remained an independent entity governed by the Prime Healthcare Services Foundation.

Further, Ibarra-Myers said she found documentation of a separate transfer of the hospital’s surgery center to Prime Healthcare itself, not its nonprofit foundation.

it differently.

He emphasized that the foundation was independent and that, while Prime did not directly assume the hospital’s assets and liabilities, it is its sole governing member. Lackey also didn’t remember hearing $167 million as the value of the hospital.

Posted in Valley on Monday, May 19, 2014 8:00 am.
