
The Home Secretary Teresa May joined the campaign trail today visiting shops ahead of Thursday’s council elections.

The government minister was in Rayners Lane for a walk round the high street with Harrow Borough Council's Tory leader Councillor Susan Hall.

The pair met shopkeepers and shoppers to talk about the issues in the area before voters head to the polls on Thursday to vote in council and European elections.

Speaking exclusively to the Harrow Times, Theresa May said: “I am here today to see the fantastic work that is being done in Harrow since the Conservative party and Susan Hall came to power last September.

“From talking to people the cleaner, safer, fairer message in Harrow is being put into practice by the Conservative Party.

The Home Secretary is the latest high profile Conservative visitor after Prime Minister David Cameron and Mayor of London Boris Johnson visited Harrow town centre last week.

The Conservative group took control of the council with a minority administration in September last year following a vote of no confidence in then council leader Cllr Thaya Idaikkadar of the Independent Labour group.

In order to gain full control of the council, a party must win 32 seats out of the 63 available from Thursday’s vote.

The three main political parties will all be fielding candidates as well as Independent Labour, UKIP and the Greens, with six independent candidates also running.

The Tory group with a wobbly leader must be very insecure to call in these Tory heavy weights to Harrow!

Had such a pleasant surprise as I went to my local shops this morning to walk into a party of Conservatives walking up the hill in Rayners Lane,from the Harrow West Conservatives Head Quarters,led by Leader of Harrow Council Cllr Susan Hall,deputy Leader Barry Cullinane-McCleod ,Cllr Joyce Nickolay and many others.

I was absolutely thrilled  to have the opportunity to personally greet Home Secretary,Teresa May,who was on a conducted tour,and have a quick word with her.Made my day!The sun shone brightly on Rayners Lane.

I know many disenchanted folk will throw fits about the Tory heavy-weights coming here but who's stopping any of the others coming to Harrow.?We are fortunate to be singled out and privileged to have them take a keen interest in our welfare.

It's absolutely grand to see the government  paying so much attention to our wonderful borough,monitoring its recent progress under the Tory led Council.Long may that last.We certainly need Harrow turned around.

All Governments have their Public Relations people.More power to our elbow!

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
