
Taipei, May 19 (CNA) Shen Jong-chin, one of Taiwan's deputy economics ministers, will lead a delegation to Vietnam later this week to assist Taiwanese businesses in seeking compensation for losses caused by recent anti-China riots in the Southeast Asian country.

Headed by Shen, the delegation will depart for Vietnam on Wednesday to help Taiwanese businesspeople who suffered losses in the riots last week, the ministry said.

The delegation will look into the damage sustained by Taiwanese businesses during the violent protests in Vietnam and also establish a mechanism for negotiations, said Vice Foreign Minister Vanessa Shih.

Taiwan will discuss compensation based on a Taiwan-Vietnam investment protection agreement signed in 1993, said Duh Tyzz-jiun, another of the Economics Ministry's deputy heads, during a hearing of the Legislative Yuan's Economics Committee.

He told legislators that if the negotiating process under the pact fails, the ministry will seek international arbitration.

The delegation will include managers of textile, footwear and bicycle manufacturers, among the hardest hit by the attacks, Duh said, and it hopes to meet with Vietnamese authorities in Hanoi as early as Friday.

A total of 224 Taiwanese companies have reported suffering damage during the anti-China riots, with 18 set on fire and five being completely destroyed, according to statistics compiled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs.

Operations at about 1,100 Taiwanese enterprises have been suspended, the ministry said.

The ruling Kuomintang, meanwhile, will send a delegation to Ho Chi Minh City, the largest city in southern Vietnam where the riots were concentrated, to care for Taiwanese businesses affected by the riots.

The KMT delegation, led by the party's Secretary-General Tseng Yung-chuan, will set out on Tuesday to offer sympathy to Taiwanese businesspeople there and learn more about their needs.

Also Monday, Taiwan's representative to Vietnam, Huang Chih-peng, said his office has demanded that Vietnamese ministers should offer an apology to Taiwan and Taiwanese businessmen and hold accountable those responsible for causing damage to Taiwanese businesses in the country.

Huang said that while Bui Trong Van, head of the Vietnam Economic and Cultural Office in Taipei, expressed "deep regret and apologies" to the investors on behalf of his government on Sunday, it was still not enough given the enormous losses incurred by Taiwanese enterprises.
