
An hour of current affairs background and debate from Australia and the world every Monday to Friday, 12:10 pm, ABC Local Radio and Radio National .

ELEANOR HALL: The Prime Minister is battling the worst public reception of a budget in decades as he embarks on a tour to sell his government's economic plan.

Two opinion polls published today show that a majority of Australians not only report that they will they be individually worse off under the Coalition's first budget but that it is unfair and is not good for the country.

The Nielsen poll in the Fairfax newspapers and The Australian's Newspoll both show that if an election were held now - and the Prime Minister did threaten to call a double dissolution briefly last week - Labor would win it in a landslide.

From Canberra, Naomi Woodley reports.

NAOMI WOODLEY: A bad set of opinion polls often draw an evasive response from politicians but the Agriculture Minister, Barnaby Joyce, wasn't sugar-coating today's Newspoll and Fairfax figures.

BARNABY JOYCE: This is a tough game and it's a tough period of time and I'm not surprised that the polls are tough.

But what is the honourable thing to do: to see a problem and to put yourself at risk and try and fix it, or to sit back and just say, oh well, you know, it's all a bit scary. We'll just park that away and leave it for our kids.

NAOMI WOODLEY: The Newspoll in today's Australian has Labor's two-party-preferred lead over the Coalition at 10 and in the Nielsen poll for Fairfax the margin is 12.

Over two thirds of respondents in both believe the budget will be bad for the economy or the nation more generally. And well under 10 per cent in both believe they will be better off as a result of the budget.

TONY ABBOTT: We are getting the budget under control. Yes, there are some very tough decisions in this budget but we're not doing them to make ourselves popular. We're doing them to get our country back on track.

NAOMI WOODLEY: The Prime Minister, Tony Abbott, has paid a visit to the Translational Research Institute in Brisbane to highlight the budget's plan for a $20 billion medical research fund. The prospect of one of the world's largest research funds is the good news the Government hopes will offset the bitter pill of GP co-payments and other deep spending cuts.

TONY ABBOTT: We've just had a budget. Obviously it was a budget for saving but it was also a budget for building.

NAOMI WOODLEY: But the poll figures show voters are focussed for the moment on the former. Tony Abbott is repeating that voters should not have been surprised by the tough measures and they are what's required.

TONY ABBOTT: We cannot go on as a nation borrowing $1 billion every single month just to pay the interest on the borrowings. This is a completely unsustainable situation. If any of you have ever had a mortgage, if any of you have ever had a credit card debt, if you are borrowing to pay the interest on the borrowings you are stuffed.

NAOMI WOODLEY: The next election isn't due until mid-way through 2016 so the Coalition does have the time to change voters' first impressions. The Prime Minister says he'll be pressing ahead and he's moving further away from any threat of a double dissolution election to get measures through the Senate.

TONY ABBOTT: I'm always going to treat my fellow members of the Parliament with respect and with courtesy because that's what a Prime Minister should do and I'm looking forward to discussions with crossbench and minor party members and senators in the weeks and months ahead.

NAOMI WOODLEY: The Greens leader, Christine Milne, is indicating that won't be an easy process.

CHRISTINE MILNE: The Greens have had no approaches from the Government with regard to budget negotiations and we've made it very clear that we are not going to support the measures in this budget which attack Medicare, which attack students and the unemployed.

NAOMI WOODLEY: Last week the Opposition Leader, Bill Shorten, challenged the Prime Minister to bring on an election if that's what he wanted.

BILL SHORTEN: I don't want to see Australians have to have countless elections, but I tell you what: no Australian voted for Tony Abbott on the belief that we'd see a cut on pensions, we'd see a new petrol tax, we'd see Medicare trashed and wrecked and the creation of a permanent underclass in Australian society.

NAOMI WOODLEY: He says today's poll results show voters believe the Government has broken election promises, but he won't say if a future Labor government would restore the $80 billion in schools and education funding removed from the budget from 2018.

BILL SHORTEN: You assume that Mr Abbott's going to be able to get away with wrecking this country through this budget. I don't. I'm the leader of the Opposition and we will, in Labor, be the voice of Australians who are angry and upset at the extreme policies coming out of a broken-promises budget based upon a pack of lies told at the last election.

NAOMI WOODLEY: He says if the Government's looking for savings it should scrap the Prime Minister's paid parental leave scheme.
