
FOUNDATION established to help raise money for Willaura boy Jacob Warrior-Day.

ARARAT - A new foundation has been established to help raise money for Willaura boy Jacob Warrior-Day, who suffers from cerebral palsy.

Jacob's mother Sarah Day and her husband Chris have started the 'Campaign for Jacob' Facebook page in the hope of raising enough money to purchase a wheelchair for their son.

"He needs around $8000 for a wheelchair and we are just trying to get it as soon as we can, because the funding waiting list is about 12 months and I can't carry him for that long," Ms Day said.

"He gets really tired, really quickly, so we can't walk long distances or go out far at the moment.

"He is missing out on kinder excursions, whereas before he could fit in the pram and we could do things like go to the zoo, but he has outgrown all prams now."

The four-year-old's only independent mode of transport is a light frame walker, but Jacob is fast out growing that.

Ms Day said her son would be attending Skene Street Specialist School in Stawell next year and she hates the thought of him missing out.

"They go down the street and do shopping trips and things like that, but if he doesn't get this wheelchair it means he won't be able to go, he'll have to stay back at the school and miss out," she said.

"Obviously if we can raise enough money it will mean that he can get his mobility back and start enjoying life again.

"He is already disadvantaged enough, without adding to it - I don't want him to miss out and make it worse."

Life is very busy for Ms Day, who is also mother to 18-month-old Isaac and six-year-old step son Kieren.

Ms Day said a wheelchair would also assist at the many appointments they have to attend and everyday life in general.

"We travel to Ballarat three times a week for physio, doctors and specialist appointments," she said.

"He has to walk or I'll carry him and at the Ballarat Base you have to go up and down stairs and lifts - it is just really hard, plus chasing after Isaac as well."

Jacob has spent most of his life in and out of hospitals since he was born 12 weeks premature.

"He was born at 29 weeks gestation and then everything just went downhill from there," Ms Day said.

"Complications at birth caused a grade three bleed in his brain and that caused hydrocephalus and other big things and then he was diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two, so things have just been hell ever since."

Ms Day is in the process of organising an online auction for May 30 and is calling on local businesses to make donations, with the aim to raise enough money to help fund a basic paediatric wheelchair.

"We have some items already donated, but we need some big things to help bring in some money," Ms Day said.

Ararat's 'Trash n Treasure' market next month on Sunday, June 8 will also raise money for Jacob.

The day will include a jumping castle, face painting and will feature Jamie and Kim's Mobile Zoo.
