
Opinion page editor Rick Holmes and other writers blog about national politics and issues. Holmes & Co. is a Blog for Independent Minds, a place for a free-flowing discussion of policy, news and opinion. This blog is the online cousin of the Opinion section of the MetroWest Daily News in Framingham, Mass. As such, our focus starts there and spreads to include Massachusetts, the nation and the world. Since successful blogs create communities of readers and writers, we hope the \x34& Co.\x34 will also come to include you.

May 19, 2014  12:11 p.m.

I mentioned last week that one of my high tech clients believes that Barry solicited a bribe from him, upon the threat of destroying his company if he didn’t pony up campaign cash. As we move forward on figuring out what to do with that, an article has been brought to my attention that deserves some serious thought. Its called The Cultural Cost of Corporatism: Government-Business Collusion Denigrates the Entrepreneur and Rewards the Sycophant, by Timothy P. Carney. This article makes abundantly clear that what my client experienced is not new or novel, but rather the modus operandi of the Barry Regime. I only point this out because Democrats like to moan about Citizens United and McCutcheon and scream about money in politics and the Koch brothers and the evils they represent, when the Democrats and this regime are just as prone or more so to focus and lavish their love on the big money corporate donors. If Democrats worry that money is killing America through campaign cash, then the Democrats could take the high road of unilaterally rejecting corporate cash in this election cycle. If all of America agrees with the Democrats that the problem is campaign money, and if the Democrats are so clean that they are willing to live without it, then the decision to forego that money should lead to a permanent Democratic ascendency.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
