
Snags in EU involvement were described as merely bureaucratic in nature.

The EU suggested, over the weekend, that delays by Egypt in providing telecommunications equipment and services to observers would curtail monitoring activities, but Mario David , chief EU observer, said Monday the delays were merely "paperwork and bureaucratic steps."

"I'm sure there was no intention whatsoever from the Egyptian authorities to block our work," he said.

Another observer, the U.S.-based Carter Center, which observed Egyptian parliamentary elections in 2011 and its presidential election in 2012, said it would send a small mission to Egypt this year to focus on broader legal and political context, rather than witnessing Election Day procedures.

The Carter Center, in a statement, said its concerns included the lack of a "genuinely competitive campaign environment" and a political polarization that it said hampered Egypt's conversion to democracy.

The presidential election is contested by former Field Marshal Abdel Fattah Sisi, and liberal politician Hamdeen Sabahi. Sisi is widely expected to win.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
