
Bridgemark Addiction Recovery Services president Christine Harkins at a news conference Monday announcing the nonprofit agency's partnership with doctors to aid them in offering assistance to patients who may have drug addiction problems. Sitting behind her is Craig Stenning, director of the state Department of Behavorial Healthcare, Development Disabilities and Hospitals.

“This is designed to offer physicians immediate assistance with patients who are at high risk of opiate drug dependency,” said Craig Stenning, director of the state Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals (BHDDH).

Officials said that the number of people in Rhode Island dying from drug overdoses — primarily opiate-based drugs — remains alarming, with the recent count at 92 deaths since the first of the year.

Stenning and Fine said that under the new program, primary-care doctors who suspect a patient may have a drug problem can offer the person almost immediate help through Bridgemark.

If the patient wants, a counselor is available within about an hour, officials said, or a consultation may be arranged as soon as the patient’s scheduled allows.

“It opens the door for physicians to save lives,” Stenning said, noting that primary-care doctors are often the first to realize that someone might be struggling with a drug problem.

A nonprofit agency, Bridgemark started more than 30 years ago as a residential treatment program for male alcoholics but has since expanded its mission, said Bridgemark president Christine Harkins.

The growing number of people dying from drug overdoses in Rhode Island — many with addictions that started with legitimately prescribed opiate-based drugs — has galvanized the state’s health officials and advocates in recent months.

Last month, Governor Chafee announced that a team of epidemiologists from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would be looking into the state’s surge of overdose deaths.

Fine said that while the state is already helping physicians find help for patients who may have drug problems, the new partnership with Bridgemark is another tool in trying to prevent unnecessary deaths.

Harkins said that there are no geographical boundaries to the pilot program, and that physicians from across the state are encouraged to call Bridgemark if they need to get a consultation quickly.

If the response proves to be overwhelming, she said the pilot program will be reassessed but added that she has faith in Bridgemark’s ability to respond to the need.

Stenning said that while the overdose death problem is daunting, Rhode Island has also made strides in helping people with drug addictions.

Rhode Island is one of only a few states where the anti-overdose drug naloxone — often marketed as Narcan — is available over the counter at some drug stores. Also, the Rhode Island State Police recently said that all troopers will have it in their cruisers.

The new partnership with Bridgemark is another “major step forward” in the fight against drug addiction, Stenning said.
