
A Soco helicopter lands in Virunga National Park.

19 May 2014 – The United Nations agency that oversees World Heritage Sites has issued an urgent appeal for the end of oil exploration in Virunga National Park. After a field mission to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) property, the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) reported “extreme concern” over the prospect of petroleum extraction in the park, which is home to the greatest variety of plants and animals in Africa. “Any oil exploitation inside the property would seriously affect its integrity,” UNESCO said.

London-based oil company Soco International PLC began seismic testing in the park’s Lake Edward last month despite repeated objections from the UK government. UNESCO urged Soco to withdraw from Virunga and pledge that the company will stay out of all natural World Heritage Sites. According to the agency, oil exploration and exploitation are incompatible with World Heritage status.

Virunga was inscribed on the World Heritage list in 1979 as one of the first properties recognized in Africa as having outstanding universal natural value that should be preserved for future generations. It is best known for its population of critically endangered mountain gorillas and for its active volcanoes. WWF has worked on forest, freshwater and wildlife conservation in Virunga for 40 years and supports its heroic rangers, of which more than 140 have died in the line of duty. Last month Chief Warden Emmanuel de Merode narrowly survived being shot four times in an ambush .

A Soco helicopter lands in Virunga National Park.

UNESCO and the UK government object to Soco's presence in the World Heritage Site.

Fight the destructive harvesting and unregulated trade of one of the most attractive inhabitants of our tropical oceans.

When you work with WWF to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature, you give your child, and all children around the world, a chance to get to discover our earth as we know it today.
