
In one of the most infamous cases involving Blackshades malware, Miss Teen USA winner Cassidy Wolf was spied on through her laptop's web cam. Wolf told authorities last month a hacker tried to blackmail her, threatening to publish nude photos obtained using Blackshades.

MONTREAL - The RCMP raided 16 Quebec homes last week as part of an international squeeze on a piece of malware designed to breach people's computers and spy on them.

Though none were arrested in Quebec or the rest of Canada, at least 97 are behind bars after an investigation that spanned 16 countries, according to Europol - a trans-European law enforcement agency. Police in the various jurisdictions searched 359 homes, seizing about 1,100 data storage units.

The FBI had been investigating the network of malware distributors for years before sharing their findings with the Mounties and Interpol, according to a spokesperson for the RCMP. Its almost certain the malware made its way outside Quebec, but police haven't yet executed search warrants in any other province, said Philippe Gravel, an investigator in the RCMP's Integrated Technological Crime Unit.

Gravel says the malware, called Blackshades, is an "all-in-one remote access toolkit" that allows users to hack into someone's computer with ease.

"It's relatively easy to use, point and click stuff," Gravel told The Gazette. "You can watch someone through their own webcam, record their keystrokes, access their personal and banking information."

RCMP officers also seized "small amounts of drugs" from the Quebec homes, Gravel said.

Sold for as low as $40 a unit, Blackshades has been distributed to about 100 countries and nearly 500,000 users. In one of the most infamous cases involving the malware, Miss Teen USA winner Cassidy Wolf was spied on through her laptop's web cam. Wolf told authorities last month a hacker tried to blackmail her, threatening to publish nude photos obtained using Blackshades.

The FBI claims to have arrested the two alleged creators of the malware, Arizona's Michael Hogue and Swedish national Alex Yucel.

In one of the most infamous cases involving Blackshades malware, Miss Teen USA winner Cassidy Wolf was spied on through her laptop's web cam. Wolf told authorities last month a hacker tried to blackmail her, threatening to publish nude photos obtained using Blackshades.
