
County Commissioner William Schmele lost a valuable five-year old mare Monday night. She had been sick about three weeks. Schmele was in town Monday and took out some shade trees to beautify his premises. Among the bunch were two fine 8 foot mountain ash.

Carl Anders lost about $18 worth of groceries Saturday night on his way home from town. When he reached Dry Creek he discovered the creek running bank high with a cloudless sky. He pushed on where he thought the bridge ought to be, Carl and the horses swam ashore while the groceries floated down stream.

Troops A, B and C of the Fourth Cavalry Company, comprising over 300 men, are now quartered at Fort Meade having arrived last week from Texas. Colonel Hathaway is the commanding officer.

Last Sunday evening two horses were stolen from this vicinity; one belonging to Chas Wilson was taken from the streets of Newell and another from the barn at the August Fredlund farm. The Wilson horse was “all saddled and bridled”. It is difficult to understand why the fellows chose horses with which to make a get-away when there were plenty of cars available.

Owing to the prevalence of whooping cough in our schools, Dr. Clark has secured vaccine for the prevention and for the treatment of this dreaded disease. Three inoculations are required for prevention and five for treatment.

O. Christopherson sustained severe body bruises but no broken bones last week when he attempted to close the large door at his elevator during the wind storm. A strong gust of wind blew the door against him, knocking him down and catching his foot, the door sliding up over his leg. Mr. Christopherson had to resort to the use of crutches to get around.

Frank Ross Post, America Legion, is planning an appropriate program of exercises for Memorial Day to take place in the City Hall. Rev. R.T. O’Hora, will deliver the principal address. The Community Choral Club will assist in the service on May 30th at 10:00 AM.

Burke & Sheridan passed through the Twilight vicinity this week on their way from Newell to Hoover with a band of yearlings. Bob Hice and Frank Maguire were also in the neighborhood hunting for stay sheep. Bill Adams returned to his home the last of this week after helping trail sheep to the gumbo.

Evidently a number of South Dakotans can’t become accustomed to carrying two licenses plates on their vehicles, after using single plates for three years. Display of license plates on both front and rear of vehicles makes easier identification by law enforcement officials. Some drivers have complained that they have no brackets on the front of vehicles for license plates.

Govert Van derBoom and Roger Van derboom owners of Newell Implement Co announce you can take a free trip to East Moline and Rock Island, Ill. You will see the famous new Farmall Super M-TA being built and see its powerful engine put through rugged horse power tests. Also see the scientific “black magic” look through metal to maintain Farmall quality. To qualify for the trip, just purchase a McCormick 141-SP, 127-SP or No 140 Combine.

The Newell High School Rodeo Club held an organizational meeting Tuesday with election of officers. Randy Smeenk was elected President, Charlotte Knuteson Secretary/Treasurer and Donna Humble Reporter. Other business included ratification of the Rodeo Club Constitution and setting dues at $2.50 for the next year.

Cheryl and Duane Kirk of Mud Butte were houseguests from Friday until Monday at the home of their grandparents Mr. & Mrs. Ralph Kirk, while their parents Mr. & Mrs. Gerald Kirk and also Walt Milberg and daughter Judy were in Pierre attending the horse races.

Newell Community Club President, Dan Wiest announced that Newell will again be honored by a visitation by a foreign band. The band will be in Rapid City for the band festival, is from Czechoslovakia and will be in Newell on June 2 for a special evening concert. The Wind Orchestra was founded in 1947 by workers in a wood wind factory and each player makes his own instrument.

Thornton Vallery has a new outfit that plants six rows of corn at a time, shoots the kernels one at a time into the ground and marks the next row automatically. What progress since the days of our grandfathers who walked the field with a hand operated planter or the hoe and a handful of corn.

“Spring Down Under” was the theme of the 44th Annual Aladdin Club’s Mother-Daughter Banquet held in the social room of the Vale Lutheran Church Tuesday evening. Decorations included Koala bear centerpieces, along with magnetized butterflies and net corsages for each member. Mabel Hill gave a slide program on Australia and New Zealand which were taken on a recent trip with her husband Preston “Buster” Hill.

Attention all Newell High School Alumni, there will be an All School Reunion in Newell, Labor Day 1995. Anyone who will be corresponding or seeing alumni should remind them of this all School Reunion event.

Kathleen Keil, Belle Fourche visited Bernita Jaskela Wednesday afternoon when she hosted the Pollyanna Club. Eight members (and former member Kathleen) answered Roll Call with an exchange of flower seeds. The spring Blood Drive was discussed with members appointed to various aspects of the drive to be held on May 27 at the NVN Center. Cookies and juice will be served to donors the day of the drive. Benita gave a demonstration on making butterflies out of old calendars and clever toilet tissue holders.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
