
For nearly his entire life, Hammed Abubakar, 65, had lived in Gamboru, a community in Borno State, developing close friendships with his neighbours, a mix of Christians and Muslims. Now all that is gone forever. As he left Gamboru on a recent Tuesday, the billowing smoke from the ruins of his burnt house followed him. His home was one of the houses burnt by the Boko Haram militants when Gamboru was raided recently by the insurgents. In that same attack, no fewer than 300 people lost their lives. Abubakar was lucky to have survived.

True, Gamboru had suffered attacks from the militants in the past, but the recent attack on a Monday afternoon that saw 1,000 shops, several homes and cars destroyed has changed everything about the community.

After the attack, a resident, Zannah Yerima told journalists that residents of the community were done with living in Nigeria.  "We, the entire community, have long concluded arrangements to leave Nigeria for Cameroun, where we believe our lives may be well protected and safe", said Yerima who claimed that three of his brothers were killed during last attack.

Another resident, Modu Bulama said: "The latest incident proved that the federal government and its security forces have failed to protect our lives and properties. Now that the level of killings and destruction inflicted on us reached its peak, the only alternative for us is to take our entire families and seek permanent refuge in Cameroun."

Undeniably, the humanitarian situation in the North-east continues to deteriorate with tens of thousands seeking shelter from the bloodshed. Now, the Norwegian Refugee Council’s Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC) has confirmed in its latest annual report on forced displacement that an increase in attacks by Boko Haram and continued inter-communal violence triggered the displacement of 470,500 people in Nigeria in recent times.

“There were 12.5 million IDPs in the 21 sub-Saharan countries that IDMC monitors as of the end of 2013, more than a third of the global total. Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Sudan had the largest populations of IDPs in Africa, and were closely followed by Somalia and the Central African Republic (CAR). The Nigerian government produced figures on internal displacement for the first time since IDMC’s monitoring began, and the official number of up to 3.3 million contributed to a rise in the overall figure for the region, from 10.4 million at the end of 2012. This made Nigeria the country with the largest IDP population in the region,” the report said.

The Global Overview 2014, published by the Geneva-based Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC) and covering internal displacement in 2013, reported that 63 per cent of the total figure of 33.3 million internally displaced people are found in some five countries of the world. The IDMC listed five countries, including Syria, Colombia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria and Sudan as places where highest IDPs are found.

"This record number of people forced to flee inside their own countries confirms a disturbing upward trend of internal displacement since IDMC first began monitoring and analysing displacement back in the late 1990s," said Jan Egeland, the Secretary General of the Norwegian Refugee Council.

"The dramatic increase in forced displacement in 2013 and the fact that the average amount of time people worldwide are living in displacement is now a staggering 17 years, all suggest that something is going terribly wrong in how we are responding and dealing with this issue," he added.

Also, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNCHR’s), António Guterres said people should "be concerned about these numbers and the continuing upwards trend. We have a shared responsibility to act to end this massive suffering. Immediate protection and assistance for the internally displaced is a humanitarian imperative."

Earlier, Human Rights Watch said people forced to flee their homes are dispersed throughout Nigeria and in neighbouring countries, where they face serious problems in accessing food, water, shelter, and other basic rights.

The rights group advised that Nigeria and its neighbours – particularly Cameroun, Chad, and Niger – should work together to assess the needs of the displaced and ensure the provision of adequate humanitarian assistance.

In an earlier report in March this year, 57,000 people were reported to have fled to Cameroon, Chad and Niger Republic between January and February as a result of Boko Haram insurgency in the country.

Spokesperson of the UNHCR, Mr Adrian Edwards, said of the 57,000 people who fled Nigeria, 17,000 were registered as Nigerians while the rest were nationals from neighbouring countries who have been living in Nigeria for ages.

He disclosed that Niger received the majority — some 40,000 concentrated in the Diffa region, a desert in the country’s eastern edge.

According to him, many of those fleeing North-eastern Nigeria are traumatised and left with very few possessions. They are mostly from the Borno State capital, Maiduguri, he noted.

Edwards noted that newly arrived refugees interviewed by the staff of the UNHCR in Niger have spoken of atrocities on the shores of Lake Chad in Borno State.

According to him, “One woman described corpses strewn through houses and floating in the water. She said people feared staying even to bury their dead or find missing relatives. Others recounted fleeing a village shooting incident and said women and children were being kidnapped and taken away by unidentified assailants.

“We’ve had some other accounts of shooting in villages there with women and children being kidnapped and taken away. So, it’s really a spreading of this horrible conflict we’re seeing outside of the towns and into some of the rural areas of North-east Nigeria.

In a related report, UNCHR said up to a thousand people are crossing the border into southern Niger every week from fear of attacks by the Islamist insurgent group and counterattacks by the Nigerian armed forces, and smaller numbers have arrived in Cameroun and Chad.

According to Edwards, refugees are providing accounts of grenade attacks on markets killing villagers and livestock, summary executions and whole villages and their crops being burned to the ground.

“Some have witnessed friends or family members being randomly singled out and killed in streets,” Mr. Edwards said, while others had spoken of arbitrary arrests on suspicion of belonging to insurgent groups.

Really, Boko Haram attacks have increased in the North-east since the beginning of 2014, with almost daily killings, bombings, thefts, and the destruction of schools, homes, and businesses in north-eastern Nigerian villages. These assaults have led to the deaths of scores of people, the abduction of women and girls, and the mass displacement of residents.

The Human Rights Watch has said Nigerian government should immediately investigate the killings and step up efforts to rescue people who have been abducted, while ensuring civilian protection, and safeguard the rights of the displaced.

The attacks since early 2014 have been particularly vicious, targeting remote villages, markets, hospitals, and schools. Besides the attacks in Gamboru-Ngala penultimate Monday in which over 300 people were killed and the Kidnapping of over 200 female students of Government Secondary School last month in Chibok that has led to a global outrage, there have been several attacks on the residents of villages outside Maiduguri.

For instance, in the early hours of February 24, assailants killed approximately 43 male students at Federal Government College, in Buni Yadi village, Yobe State, and abducted an unknown number of female students. Earlier in February, in Konduga, a village 35 kilometres from Maiduguri, gunmen abducted 20 female students at Government Girls Science College and five female street traders in an attack that caused the death of more than 53 people. Following that attack, the federal government closed five federal colleges in the three states under a state of emergency. And just a few days after over 200 schoolgirls were abducted in Chibok, another eight girls were reportedly abducted in a nearby village.

Also, residents of the village of Mafa reported that they received letters, allegedly from Boko Haram, warning of impending attacks. In anticipation of the violence, many women and children fled their homes, leaving behind the aged, the infirm, and those unwilling to flee – some of whom died in the eventual attack.

In the Buni Yadi college attack, residents reported that soldiers deployed to provide security near the school seemed to withdraw before the assault.

When armed men attacked the town of Izghe, south of Maiduguri, on February 15 and 22, they killed more than 100 people and razed the entire town.

According to Human Rights Watch, outside the town, a military roadblock was dismantled as Boko Haram fighters appeared in military uniform. They asked the local population to gather in an open space, and many complied, believing the men were members of the security forces there to protect residents. The fighters then shot those who had gathered and threw bombs into houses to harm those who had not shown up.

So Human Rights Watch  asked the Nigerian government to investigate the allegations that security forces withdrew before certain attacks, and investigate and bring to justice Boko Haram leaders for the group’s killings, kidnappings, pillaging, and abductions, which have characterised the violence in the North-east.

But the National Emergency Management Authority (NEMA) has said the immediate priority should focus on helping the people displaced by the insurgency.

According to NEMA, a perception that the government can handle its crises without help, are leaving many of the thousands displaced by Boko Haram violence in the North-east short of food, with little to no access to health care or basics like clean water and blankets.

"We can't cater to needs of all [the affected] - resources are not adequate. We are trying our best to meet people's needs but it's not easy," Manzo Ezekiel, spokesperson for the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said. "We need the help of international NGOs. The government alone cannot do it."

THISDAY investigation showed that only a handful of global humanitarian agencies are in the North-east at the moment, because of fear of attack on their workers and based on the idea that the Nigerian government should be able to handle the humanitarian crisis as a country that often project that image of being capable to handle its own affairs.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
