
“I am horrified by the Budget,” she said.

But its own photo (see tweet above) and alliterative acknowledgement that “ doctors and delinquents stood shoulder to shoulder” in the protests points to the growing alliances building against the Federal Budget measures.

As today’s polls and just some of the tweets from the #MarchinMay protests also show below, the Federal Government has managed to unite the “strife of interests” in the health sector and the broader community against a Budget that would spell the end of universal health care and unfairly hit poorer and more vulnerable Australians.

Fairfax media today published analysis by Peter Whiteford and Daniel Nethery that replicates the family outcomes statement that was missing from this year’s Budget, for the first time since 2005.

It shows the breakdown of impact, from an unemployed 23-year-old who loses $47 a week or 18 per cent of their disposable income to the $24 per week, or less than 1 per cent of disposable income, paid through the deficit levy by an individual on three times the average wage – close to $250,000 by 2016–17. They note that high-income couples could together bring in up to $360,000 a year and not contribute an extra cent.

Many at the marches agreed with social researcher Hugh Mackay’s analysis that the Budget not only turns its backs on the problem of inequality, it exacerbates it.

It’s not the economics; it’s not the politics; it’s the clear sign that this government has young people, the sick, the poor, the unemployed, the elderly and the marginalised in its sights.

This growing inequity will of course particularly hit Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, amid growing expectation that the Budget measures (in health and beyond) will widen the gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians.

The Central Australian Aboriginal Congress has warned it can’t risk passing on the GP co-payment to its patients so will have to absorb it, at a cost of $1 million per year . Other Budget measures also put Aboriginal health, housing, justice and education at risk .

Beyond the individual pain, the Budget has taken a wrecking ball to the health system – not to mention years of hard work on the national health reform negotiations – and taken us back to the bad old days of blame game and cost shifting, with  Premiers calling for voters to lobby the Coalition party room and Senate to defeat the cuts.

‘I’m talking to them all the time. I talk to the premiers all the time. The changes are not cuts; they’re just a reduced rate of growth in spending.

As the tweets below show, there was no question of the diversity of the crowds taking part in #MarchinMay – and no question that the media would again miss the significance of the opposition as they did at the earlier #MarchinMarch event.

It was clear too that Abbott and Health Minister Peter Dutton face big community concern on the dismantling of universal health care and the impact of the GP co-payment.

Thank you for registering, we have just sent you a confirmation email, which includes your new password to be entered below.

The Croakey blog is a forum for debate and discussion about health issues and policy. It is moderated by Melissa Sweet, a freelance journalist with a personal and professional bent towards public health perspectives. Regular contributors include members of the Crikey Health and Medical Panel.

Level 6, 22 William St,
