
"Our children are no longer safe", lamented Mrs. Josephine Obute, a Lagos resident.

Obute was expressing her fears at the rising trend of kidnapping of school-age kids across the country. It was a conversation between her and another woman whose two children narrowly escaped being kidnapped recently by ritualists in Ogun State.

Likening the scenario to people who poach animals, she said children have now become endangered species who must at all cost be protected and their innocence preserved.

She was right. As the nation was still grappling with the trauma of  the recent killings of over 50 students of the Federal Government College, Buni Yadi, Yobe State, by the Boko Haram sect, the insurgents once moved in and  abducted about over 200 female students from Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State.  Again on Monday, May 5, they reportedly struck again, abducting 11 more girls within the area.

However, this is deadly escalation in kidnapping of school-age children is not restricted to Borno State, as other states have had to battle incidents of abduction of young children in recent times.  A few days ago,  Akure, the Ondo State capital experienced the same act as ritualists descended on the state to prey for kids.

Only recently, in Lagos State, there were over five cases of reported attempted abduction within the metropolis. Indeed, during one of the incidents, three children were nearly abducted by the kidnappers.

For instance, at Oke-odo Community in Alimosho Local Government Area of the state a kidnapper who abducted two school children was arrested. The kidnapper was caught by passersby after abducting two schoolchildren.

Some of the passersby including one Colonel Adeniran was said to have assisted in arresting and handing the suspect over to the Ilepo Police Division, where investigations have already begun.

At Ekoro Road, Abule Egba within the same axis where the previous one occurred, an angry mob set a female kidnapper ablaze. The mob which acted on a tip-off that the middle-aged woman abducted three schoolchildren rounded her up and set her ablaze.

The jungle justice meted out to the woman whose identity is yet-to-be known, caused a traffic gridlock for hours.

The suspect had allegedly driven to the area in an SUV, but tried to escape in a tricycle when an alarm was raised. According to an eyewitness account, the suspect allegedly attempted to kidnap three children who were on their way to school but had her plans foiled by a food vendor, who raised an alarm as the suspect tried to escape.

The angry mob were said to have beaten the woman to a pulp before they hung a tyre on her neck, poured petrol and set her ablaze.

Eyewitnesses alleged that after the mob had exerted jungle justice on the suspect, the police from Oke-Odo Police Station stormed the area only to meet the smoldering ashes of the deceased.

Although hundreds of people surrounded the charred corpse, the police said they could not make any arrest because they could not clearly identify those who participated in the bizarre act.

One of the residents of the area, Mr. Farouk Yisa who spoke with THISDAY said the three children were going to Army Children School in the area when the suspected kidnapper accosted them and offered to help them to get to the school in good time.

Yisa said people were not even aware of what the lynched kidnapper was transporting until the bread vendor alerted them. “Although she tried to put up resistance, but the crowd was able to overpower her,” said Yisa.

He however stressed that before they unleashed their anger on her, they had first challenged her on the ownership of the children, which she initially claimed belonged to her, until the children said otherwise and that was when they began to beat her up.

Barely two days later, a similar incident took place, but for the appearance of the police, two kidnappers would have gone the same way the one caught in Oke-Odo did.

It was gathered that olice personnel from Ikotun and Ipaja Police Division in two different raids rescued the suspects identified as Chinasa Nancy Okafor and Samsudeen Yusuf respectively from being lynched.

The duo had allegedly attempted to kidnap their victims when they were accosted by passersby, stripped and were about to be set ablaze when the police from different divisions intervened.

Okafor was rescued and subsequently arrested by the policemen attached to Ikotun division who responded to a distress call at Ile-Iwe Bus Stop, Egbe.

According to an eyewitness account, the suspect had already been stripped naked and the angry mob was in the process of seting her ablaze when the police squad was sighted by the mob.

Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Ngozi Braide, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said Okafor admitted to being a kidnapper, adding that the case is under investigation at State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti, Yaba.

Similarly, the police from Ipaja division who responded to a distress call at Adefemi Junction, Ipaja, rescued and subsequently arrested Yusuf who was about to be lynched by an angry mob for attempting to kidnap a 14-year-old named Salawat Sonubi.

The suspect had gone to the victim's neighbourhood at Adelami Dada Street, Ipaja and had successfully lured her away until he was accosted at Adefemi Junction by a passerby whose suspicion was aroused based on the suspect's shifty actions.

When it was ascertained he kidnapped the victim, the mob unleashed their wrath on him, injuring him severely before he was rescued by the police.

Braide who also confirmed the incident said the suspect is receiving treatment at Lagos State General Hospital, Oke Odo, adding that detectives from SCID are also on the case.

Also, Idimu Police Division arrested one Mufutau Kosoko, who abducted one Prosper Kingsley from his family compound while he was playing.

However, the 34-year-old suspect's nefarious act was foiled by neighbours who raised an alarm and gave him a chase with the help of the police and the 5-year-old victim was rescued and returned to his parents unhurt.

In the aforementioned cases, the children were rescued but there are countless other cases whereby the kids have not been found, dimming the hope of their parents, who against all odds try to keep faith.

And from the recent compilation of missing persons in Lagos  State alone, THISDAY checks revealed that children are in large number  of the statistics given about the missing people. This figure however does not account for those cases which were not reported to the police.

And in Chibok, Borno State, where over 200 schoolgirls from age 12 to 16 were kidnapped last month, parents continue to clamour for their rescue. Indeed, no one can truly understand the pain, anguish and anxiety these young girls are undergoing now. For now, their dreams, aspirations and hopes are in limbo pending on their rescue.

Not surprisingly, Nigerians from all walks of life have held protests, interdenominational prayers, rallies, book readings, poetry sessions and fund raising to sustain the drive.

Championed by the former Minister of Education, Mrs. Oby Ezekwesili and a host of others, the global outrage has been massive.

It was in the light of this that some schoolchildren recently shed their innocence and took to the streets of Lagos to register their grievance over the rising case of abduction in the state.

The primary and secondary school students, who recently took to the streets of Lagos, also condemned the kidnap of the female students in Chibok, stressing that they can align with their pains having lost some classmates too.

With placards denouncing the evil act perpetuated by the  Boko Haram sect, the concerned schoolchildren from Holy Family, Prevailer and DMT Schools in Ijegun, Ikotun, took to the streets in a peaceful protest.

Condemning the abduction of over 200 female school children from Government Secondary School, Chibok, Bornu State, the young protesters however decried the rising trend in Lagos.

According to them, while attention has been focused on the Chibok incident, the government needs to also beam its searchlight on similar incidents in Lagos, one of which is the alleged abduction of four school children from Best Gift School, Ologun, Ikotun.

They said although one of the victims, a boy of five, was  later rescued and returned back to the  parents, the whereabouts of the remaining three children were yet to be known, neither their fate ascertained.

It was gathered that already, the Isheri Police Division with help from the traditional ruler and the members of the community have been on the lookout, whilst the police continue investigations.

As expected, these acts have caused a feeling of unease among the children and of course, their parents, as confirmed by the Head Teacher of Holy Family School, Mr. Tunde Owofade, who said the children, are restless because of the fear of unknown caused by the target on young children.

He said: "The abduction of the schoolgirls in Chibok has brought fear to the minds of other schoolchildren and their parents. Now, no parent wants to be far away from her kids without constant check."

Also, the Proprietor,  Prevailer Schools, Mr. Austin Agali, said the school had to put stringent measures on ground like giving parents strict instructions against sending people unknown to the school to pick their children.

He said: "Parents and guardians are given strict instructions guiding picking up their children after school, infact, no unknown person is allowed into the compound."

One of the parents who supported the protest, Mr. Charles Ikechukwu, said he was vocal about the safety of the children because his daughter, Favour barley escaped abduction when a man jumped down from a jeep  and attempted to drag her in.

He said:  "He would have succeeded but my daughter screamed and drew the attention of passersby, thereby forcing the man to terminate his mission and speed off."

Other teachers who pledged that they would not rest until the girls were released and brought back to their parents, urged the government to make it their utmost agenda.

The insecurity that has pervaded the nation in general and Lagos specifically has without doubt given room for some mischievous persons to cook up tales of abduction, inciting panic among the populace.

Just last week too, pandemonium erupted at Mushin area of Lagos after a false rumour made the rounds that members of the  Boko Haram sect had infiltrated a school in the neighbourhood and made away with over 100 students.

up their children.

It was gathered that personnel from the Area D Mushin were immediately drafted to the area to beef up security as well as investigate the claims.

However, at that point, the school authority had already prevented the worried parents from taking their children home as the news was a mere rumour.

The school principal, Femi Erille said, "It was a mere rumour. I also heard about it in the radio. We have 700 children both in the secondary and primary school and all of them are still in the school.

"No one is missing and no parents has complained that his or her child is missing. In fact, it was false news."

Also, one of the parents who heard the rumour and rushed down to the school, said he was relieved when he discovered it was a baseless news put together by some idle people.

When contacted, Ngozi Braide said they still beefed up security although they knew it was a false alarm, to buttress the point that the command is ever ready to attend to distress calls.

She however called on members of the public to stop raising false alarm because many innocent people have been attacked on the accusation that they are kidnappers.

While condemning the practice of using abducted female students as sex slaves in Boko Haram camps, security expert Dr. Ona Ekhomu, said a behavioral analysis would help security agencies understand these terrorists and how to tackle this menace once and for all.

He said the growing abduction of women by the sect is a crime against humanity, urging security forces to be more challenged by this unacceptable change in tactic that “takes direct aim at the essence of womanhood".

He called on the federal government to mandate all security agencies to conduct behavioural analysis of Boko Haram terrorists in order to predict future attacks and prevent the tragic events.

He said such analysis by security psychologists or profilers would give a deep insight into the mind, phenomenology, idiosyncrasies and patterned-behaviors of sociopathic and psychopathic serial offenders.

Braide also restated that measures should be put in place to safeguard the children especially by their parents and teachers. She said one of the key things children should be taught is not to talk to strangers.

She also said they should reject all overtures of help from strangers, which although looks innocent at face value, portend danger for them.

Meanwhile, the CP Manko, had in a recent media parley said crime prevention within the state reduced significantly compared with the year 2012 which had a higher records of murder, assaults, kidnapping, stealing, traffic offences and child theft, among other vices.

Despite his claims, many have called in the government and of course, the police to sanitise the nation and make it once again where children can thread without fear of the unknown.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
