
Makes 11th-hour reversal late Monday, despite assurances by regional council that it does not discriminate against openly gay volunteers as Boy Scouts of America has been criticized for doing in other locations, including Seattle last month.

Tony Gutierrez/ASSOCIATED PRESS The Greater New York Council purports to have a strict non-discrimination policy that extends to gay leaders, putting it at possible odds with the national organization. The Boy Scouts dismissed a gay scout leader and revoked his troop’s charter in Seattle, Wash., in April after his sexual status became public.

Queens Borough President Melinda Katz is still working on her next merit badge.

Katz made an 11th-hour reversal Monday, rescinding an invitation to the regional Boy Scouts of America chapter to make a presentation at her monthly borough cabinet meeting Tuesday.

“We are . . . postponing the presentation by the Boy Scouts of America — Greater New York Councils until our office can clarify the Boy Scouts’ stance on discrimination based on sexual orientation,” Katz said in a statement provided by her spokesman.

Katz faced criticism from gay activists, who questioned her decision to give a platform to an organization they called discriminatory.

Gay rights advocates hailed Katz’s turnabout as a victory.

The good sign is they decided to cancel; the bad sign is that it took them so long to realize it.

“The good sign is they decided to cancel; the bad sign is that it took them so long to realize it,” said Pauline Park, the executive director of the Queens Pride House, who noted that the borough president could not call herself a supporter of LGBT inclusion if she supported such “discrimintory” groups.

In the face of intense national scrutiny, the Boy Scouts of America voted last year to allow gay youth to participate, but the group has continued to prohibit openly gay scout leaders in its chapters.

“While the Boy Scouts have made recent improvements to their policies, they continue to discriminate,” said Nathan Schaefer, the executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda.

The organization dismissed a gay scout leader and revoked his troop’s charter in Seattle, Wash., in April after his sexual status became public.

Andrew Schwartz/For New York Daily News “We are . . . postponing the presentation by the Boy Scouts of America — Greater New York Councils until our office can clarify the Boy Scouts’ stance on discrimination based on sexual orientation,” Katz said in a statement. The group had been invited to participate in Katz' monthly borough cabinet meeting on Tuesday.

The Greater New York Council purports to have a strict non-discrimination policy that extends to gay leaders, putting it at possible odds with the national organization.

“We strongly believe that both gay adults and youth must be welcomed in Scouting,” the group wrote in a letter posted on its website last year.

National scouting representatives declined to answer questions about the policies of the Greater New York Council, but the organization offered a statement on behalf of local president Mike Sibilia.

“Our focus continues to be on working together to deliver the nation’s foremost youth program of character development,” the statement said.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
