
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 9:41 p.m.

NEW SMYRNA BEACH — After unsuccessfully courting a for-profit hospital chain, Bert Fish Medical Center is back on the market looking for a new partner.

The hospital's seven-member board voted Monday to authorize their attorney to contact potential suitors to gauge their interest. Jim Kennedy, a lawyer with the firm Carlton Fields, said he's already received a call from an interested out-of-market provider after news broke that a deal between Bert Fish and Community Health Systems Inc. had fallen apart. He declined to name the provider that called him.

Two local hospital systems — Florida Hospital and Halifax Health — have publicly expressed interest in partnering with Bert Fish, which has seen two deals fall apart in the past four years. Bert Fish officials say it will be difficult for the small, taxpayer-supported hospital to survive in a changing health care landscape without bonding with a larger organization. The hospital has spent nearly $1 million on its latest merger attempt.

Community Health Systems, a Franklin, Tennessee,-based for profit chain, told the hospital last week it is no longer interested in acquiring another new hospital after it purchased Health Management Associates Inc. — the Naples-based company that had been negotiating with Bert Fish. In 2011, a judge voided a deal with Florida Hospital because the negotiations violated the Sunshine Law, which requires public business to be conducted in open meetings.

Community Health Systems earlier this year closed a $3.6 billion deal to acquire Health Management Associates. The decision to scrap the deal with Bert Fish was made at a high level, Kennedy said, and the for-profit chain said it would be interested in resuming talks in a year if the hospital is still available.

As news broke that the deal collapsed, Florida Hospital indicated that it's “open to exploring the needs of Southeast Volusia,” and Halifax Health's chief operating officer said it “just makes sense” for the area's two public hospital systems to strike a deal.

During discussion Monday, board member Pat Card said he would be interested in pursuing a partnership with Florida Hospital, which he said is in a “strong financial position” and well-positioned in the Volusia and Flagler market.

But board member Pat Corbett questioned whether Bert Fish had an obligation to negotiate with Halifax Health, a 678-bed public hospital system that went through the initial bidding process and finished behind HMA.

Kennedy said the hospital has no “legal obligation” to negotiate exclusively with Halifax Health and is free to pursue other hospital systems that did not submit proposals when the hospital launched its latest attempt at finding a partner in the fall of 2012.

Halifax Health was allied with Bert Fish from 1997 to 2004. The system had competed with HMA last year for the rights to explore a new merger, but Bert Fish signed an exclusive negotiating agreement with HMA.

Since its initial proposal, Halifax Health agreed to pay $85 million to settle part of a whistle-blower lawsuit accusing the hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with doctors. A second part of the case is set for trial in July. A Halifax Health spokesman said the legal settlement won't affect the hospital's ability to merge with Bert Fish.

Bill Griffin, Halifax Health's director of planning, attended the meeting Monday, telling the board that his organization and Bert Fish share a common mission and commitment to the community. Florida Hospital did not send a representative.

Bert Fish board members agreed the hospital needed to move quickly to eliminate uncertainty for the hospital's roughly 700 employees.

“I would really like to see us — for the benefit of the community and the benefit of the people in this hospital — get the job done,” Card said.
