
SANTIAGO, May 16 (Reuters) - Chile's child welfare service  is investigating reports that a Catholic priest was involved in  giving babies up for adoption in the 1970s and 1980s without  their parents' knowledge, telling the biological mothers that  their child had died.

Chilean investigative journalism center Ciper published a  report last month saying that an unknown number of babies who  were born to unmarried mothers were illegally given to other  families. In some cases, the women were persuaded it was the  best choice for them, but in others they were told the baby had  died soon after childbirth, the report said.

The cases took place during the dictatorship of General  Augusto Pinochet. In neighboring Argentina, there are hundreds  of documented cases of babies being taken away from imprisoned  mothers who were considered subversives by the state during the  military dictatorship's 'dirty war' in the 1970s.

However, in Chile's traditional Catholic society, the babies  were removed from women from middle-class families not for  overtly political reasons but because of the stigma attached to  unmarried mothers at the time.

The priest at the center of the scandal, Gerardo Joannon,  has denied any wrongdoing, saying in an interview with Ciper  that he had been working with doctors to try to prevent  backstreet abortions. Chile remains today one of the few  countries in the world where abortion is illegal in all cases.

"In those days, a girl who was a single mother was looked on  very badly," he said, adding that he had "helped in around four  or five cases, I don't remember."

His exact role remains unclear and he has said he will not  take part in any investigation into what happened. He has not  been charged with any crime.

One person identified in the report was Andres Rillon, who  said his daughter was given up for adoption after he and the  child's mother were told she was dead. Rillon's sister, Maria  Elvira Rillon, said that Joannon celebrated mass in memory of  the supposedly deceased infant, a claim denied by the priest.

"I didn't have any relationship with any parent," said  Joannon in an interview with Chile's Channel 13. "I didn't know  who the parents were...the only thing I did was to put the  person with problems in contact with a doctor involved in  locating families that wanted to have a child."

The country's child adoption and welfare department Sename  said this week that eight new cases had come to light, mainly  people in their thirties who knew they were adopted and  suspected something "irregular" about the way it had taken  place. It said it was requesting a dedicated investigator.

"I again repeat to the priest Joannon, the doctors and those  who have information that they tell the authorities what they  know. We have to know the truth," said Marcela Labrana, the head  of Sename.

Catholics claim that Jesus named Peter the first pope with the words “on this rock I will build my church… I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.” Soon after, the former fisherman publicly denied knowing Jesus at all and cut a man’s ear off. Luckily Jesus was there to miracle the ear back on.

Kind of a Catholic Yentl, Joan hid her naughties and made her way up the clerical ladder to the highest rung. According to the story, Joan is able to keep her gender hidden until going into labor in the middle of a papal parade and giving birth in front of a crowd of surprised onlookers. The Vatican denies any woman sat on Peter’s seat. But for several centuries, Rome did use the safety guard of a special coronation throne with a hole in the seat that allowed for a lucky cleric to make a quick examination of the would-be pontiff and declare the pope to be all man.

This pope is most famous for his career as a corpse. His successor, Pope Stephen VII, had the decomposing body exhumed, dressed in full papal vestments, seated on a throne, and put on trial for the breaking of canon law. Not surprisingly, Formosus was found guilty. Guards stripped the corpse of his vestments, cut off three fingers and tossed the body into the Tiber River. Stephen VII didn’t fair too well. He was later deposed and strangled to death in prison. Formosus was snagged from the river and given a proper burial… for a while. Years later, Pope Sergius III (904-11) once again dug up Formosus, retried him and beheaded the abused corpse.

Even the forgiving Catholic Encyclopedia describes John XII as “a coarse, immoral man, whose life was such that the Lateran was spoken of as a brothel, and the moral corruption in Rome became the subject of general odium.” Among his credits were ordaining a ten-year-old boy a bishop, toasting the devil, castrating difficult clergy, blinding his confessor, and sleeping with almost anybody including his own niece. He died after receiving a severe beating from a jealous husband.

That’s right, he was pope three times. First in 1032 as a young man, in some accounts still a teenager. Benedict IX was not a popular pope. Accused of rape, murder, and other crimes, one historian described him as a "demon from hell in the disguise of a priest." In 1045 he was briefly deposed and replaced with Sylvester III. Benedict IX was back in power by spring, but soon resigned the position. (That’s right. Our Benedict is not the first.) By most accounts, Benedict IX sold the papacy to his godfather John Gratian who became Pope Gregory VI. Two years later, Benedict IX found himself hankering for that big pope hat and he forcefully reclaimed the office once again.

Saint Celestine V was a sweet, wise hermit called upon to be pope. Turns out he was better suited to be a hermit. He retired just five months after being crowned and longed to return to his hermit life. But his successor, Boniface VIII, couldn’t let that happen. Boniface imprisoned Celestine just in case he changed his mind. Boniface then went on to expand the power of Rome, sacking castles and towns and sending forces against foreign kings. He excommunicated the King of France and claimed "every human creature [was] subject to the Roman pontiff." So ambitious was this pope, that Dante describes his damnation in his Divine Comedy. This might have upset Boniface VII; He was still alive when Dante wrote it.

Power drove this pope mad. He seemed a nice enough fellow, but once he became pope he was harsh, violent and quickly made enemies. So much so, that the cardinals who elected him decided they had made a mistake and elected another pope in his place. But Urban VI refused to step down and the new pope, Clement VII, set up court in France. So began the Western Schism that lasted into the next century and had, at one point, three officially elected popes all claiming the authority of the papacy.

Here’s a pope with powerful friends, in particular Dracula. Much of his pontificate was occupied with battling the expansion of the Ottoman Empire. He often called upon the princes of Europe to aid the cause. One effective ally was Vlad III, Prince of Wallachia—that would be Vlad the Impaler, also known as Dracula. Vlad, a ruler with a quirky knack for impaling his enemies alive (by some accounts in the tens of thousand) made good bedfellows with the pontiff. The pope declared the future blood-sucking vampire athleta christi (champion of Christ).

This pope served in a dark and turbulent time and failed to live up to the call. As millions of people were imprisoned and murdered, the leader of the Catholic Church refused to publically denounce Hitler. Pictured here is Cesare Orsenigo, Pius XII’s Apostolic Nunciature to Germany, meeting with Hitler and his inner circle. Some claim Pius XII felt he could do more to bring an end to Hitler’s slaughter by holding his tongue, but it is tragic that in the face of mass murder and torture the most powerful religious figure in the world did so very little.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
