
According to the conference organisers, CBM-TEC showed significant appetite for these kinds of events.

“We clearly identified a specific need and gap in Zambia’s vital mining industry and managed to fill it with a world class exhibition, high-level attendees as well as a very practical, relevant programme which all contributed to CBM-TEC’s real impact.  Certainly our expectations were exceeded and we are delighted by the overwhelming welcome we received by Zambia, the mining community and the local media,” says programme director Nicole Smith.

According to Smith the focus of the CBM-TEC conference was on building a world-class and sustainable mining industry with Zambia poised to increase copper production over the coming years.

The high-level representation from government and industry proved to organisers that the country is serious about taking the Copperbelt forward according to CBM-TEC’s Nicole Smith.  The Vice President, the Hon. Dr. Guy Scott, provided the keynote address and conducted the official opening of the exhibition.

He said the environmental agency’s responsibility was to ensure compliance to environmental requirements by all industries and economic players. He urged the mining companies to continue dialoguing with the government in an open, frank and transparent manner. “Let’s be open, let’s be honest, let’s be Zambian. We are not making life difficult for your mining companies, we have obligations to the people… if we do not speak frankly and openly, rumour mongers will start spreading falsehoods about our operations,” Dr Scott said. He said the government was prepared to work with the mining industry for the good of the country.

Dr Scott was accompanied by Zambia’s Minister of Mining, Energy and Water Development, Hon. Christopher Yaluma, who provided a special address to the conference on the outlook and vision for Zambia’s mining sector.

The Minister of the Copperbelt, the Mayor of Kitwe, the District Commissioner and 11 Directors from the Ministry of Mines, Energy and Water Development. Furthermore there was representation from all the operators: Mopani, Barrick Lumwana, Chibuluma, Lubambe and Konkola Copper Mines. There was also a delegation from the DRC, headed by the VP of the Chamber of Mines in DRC, which provided an excellent opportunity for engagement on cross border issues and opportunities.
