
Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, China (Reuters) – Over 290 Chinese nationals affected in Vietnam's anti-China riots arrived at Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province in Southwest China, on Sunday afternoon, according to a Chinese Foreign Ministry media release.

The ministry said they were sent back by two chartered planes from China Southern Airlines organized by the Chinese government. Over 100 of them were injured in the violent attacks against foreign businesses and citizens including staff members of the China Metallurgical Group Corporation.

Those critically injured were sent in ambulances to two major hospitals in Chengdu while those with slight injuries were sent to other hospitals for further diagnosis and treatment.

Early Sunday morning, 16 critically-injured Chinese nationals were evacuated from Vietnam aboard a chartered medical flight arranged by the Chinese government.

An iron and steel complex in Ha Tinh Province of Vietnam, invested by the Taipei-based Formosa Plastics Group, was badly hit in the violent attacks triggered by disputes in the South China Sea.

The China 19th Metallurgical Corporation (MCC19) is a contractor for construction of the plant.

Guo Wenqing, president of the China Metallurgical Croup Corporation, said only 30 staff members of MCC19 would remain in Vietnam and the rest will return aboard chartered planes and ships.

"Ever since the riots in Vietnam took place, the CPC Central Committee and the Chinese State Council have attached great importance to the safety of Chinese nationals in Vietnam. We're now evacuating our staff from Vietnam in two ways, planes and ships, according to plans and arrangement," said Guo.

In addition to the first chartered planes organized by the Chinese government, the Chinese Ministry of Transport said China is also sending five ships to Vietnam on Sunday to evacuate its nationals.

The four ships – the Wuzhishan, Tongguling, Zijing-12, and Baishiling – have set out from Hainan Province, heading for Ha Tinh Province where over 5,000 Chinese nationals are waiting for evacuation. Another ship, the Yuehaitie-4, is currently standing by at port.

The Wuzhishan, the first ship to set out, is expected to arrive at its destination by 6:00 a.m. Monday (May 19).

Meanwhile, the Youyiguan (Friendship Pass) in the city of Pingxiang in south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region which borders Vietnam, has also seen more Chinese nationals returning.

"We had a very safe journey home and we didn't come across any danger," said one Chinese national who traveled back to China through the Friendship Pass on Sunday.

According to local officials, the Friendship Pass started to see a boom of returning Chinese nationals last Tuesday. Official estimates showed that the pass has received a total of 11,000 Chinese nationals by Saturday.

"We have extended the working hours at the Friendship Pass for the convenience of returning Chinese nationals, making sure that they can get through the pass quickly, safely, and in order," said Feng Bo, deputy mayor of the Pingxiang City.

According to Feng, relevant government departments are also working hard to ensure all returning Chinese nationals can have access to transportation back to their hometowns.

Two Chinese nationals were killed and more than 100 others injured in deadly anti-China riots that started in Vietnam last week.

China's Foreign Ministry said early Sunday that more than 3,000 Chinese nationals had been evacuated from Vietnam as of Saturday afternoon.

The deadly attacks against Chinese personnel and companies in Vietnam occurred after China frustrated a series of provocative moves by Hanoi to disturb the normal drilling of a Chinese oil rig in the South China Sea.

All content provided in this site is solely owned by 9TV Philippines and its news organization 9News. Illegal reproduction, distribution of information contained in this site is strictly prohibited.
