
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The facts haven’t changed.

It was a bad idea when South Jersey Gas Co. proposed building a 22-mile, 24-inch natural gas pipeline through a forest zone of the Pinelands to the BL England power generating station in Cape May County, and it remains a bad idea — for environmental and public safety reasons.

Nonetheless, even though the Pinelands Commission in January deadlocked, 7-7, on a vote to give its approval, thereby rejecting the plan, South Jersey Gas is now suing the commission in state Superior Court to build it anyway.

There are other reasons for Graham’s optimism. The Christie administration and the state Board of Public Utilities supports the pipeline. If the court buys the company’s claim that the commission’s previous vote was, as the suit claims, “arbitrary, capricious, and lack(ing) fair support in the evidence,” it could send the case back to the Pinelands Commission for another vote. And if that happens, all bets are off.

Everyone around the state should care about this. It’s not just a Pinelands issue, not if you care about environmental protection in sensitive areas of New Jersey. How the Christie administration handles this has application to other projects and policies in other parts of the state, including the Highlands, which has a direct affect on the quality of our drinking water. And the Christie camp’s support for environmental damage in the Pinelands continues to be troubling.

The Pinelands Commission is a 15-member regional land-use board with seven representatives from Pinelands counties. At a meeting last month, Cumberland County officials replaced their representative of 18 years, Leslie Ficcaglia, who had voted against the pipeline. The freeholders appointed Jane Jannarone, a former Democratic freeholder and Vineland real estate agent. While Jannarone has said she plans to keep an open mind on the subject, it is hard to resist the thought that the fix might be in.

This plant is not, despite what its supporters claim, essential to meeting the state’s energy needs. It is, at bottom, an effort to promote economic growth in Cape May County. That may or may not be a worthy goal, but the Pinelands pipeline is not the way to achieve it.

The pipeline poses significant environmental risks to the Pinelands, as a letter sent to the commission in December by four former New Jersey governors opposing the pipeline stated. There are at least two other feasible, alternative pipeline routes available, although they would cost more than the Pinelands proposal.

The Pinelands, which occupies 22 percent of the state’s land area, sits atop aquifers containing 17 trillion gallons of some of the purest water in the U.S. It must be protected.

Whatever the next chapter in this saga turns out to be, the facts have not changed. The Pinelands pipeline is still a terrible precedent to set and a fundamentally bad idea.
