
Ross Elementary kindergartners walk to the gym to take part in a graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster, part of an Adopt-a-Kindergarten program.

Ross Elementary School kindergartners walk to the gym during their May 15 Adopt-a-Kindergarten graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster.

Kindergartners from Ross Elementary School in School District of Lancaster line up for a photo before they take part in a graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster last week. The ceremony was part of an Adopt-a-Kindergarten program at Stevens. Kindergarten students from Washington and Ross elementary schools also participated in the program at Stevens, and had their own graduations last week.

Kindergarten students from Ross Elementary get ready in a hallway before last week's graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster, part of an Adopt-a-Kindergarten program.

Teacher Svetlana Sbubinsky leads her Ross Elementary School kindergarten class into the gym at Thaddueus Stevens College during a graduation ceremony May 15 at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster. The School District of Lancaster school was taking part in an Adopt-a-Kindergarten program.

Parents of Ross Elementary students take photos during an Adopt-a-Kindergarten graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology, Lancaster.

Ross Elementary School kindergarten student Grace Amble looks at her mom during a graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster on May 15.

Ross Elementary student Shalena Talton-Hill has fun during a graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster, part of an Adopt-a-Kindergarten program.

Parents of Ross Elementary School students look on during a graduation ceremony at Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster, part of the college's Adopt-a-Kindergarten program.

Thaddeus Stevens College president William Griscom talks to the Ross Elementary School graduates from the Stevens Adopt-a-Kindergarten program.

Lots of young children are asked what they want to be when they grow up.

Classes from three School District of Lancaster elementary schools might have a wider range of options to choose from — and the practical knowledge to back it up.

Each year, Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology partners with some local schools. Instructors visit the schools and work with kindergartners, introduce them to the classes they teach and talking about why they’re important.

The kindergartners — this year, from Lafayette, George Ross and Washington elementary schools — then visit the college campus.

Last week, nearly 300 kindergartners traveled to Stevens to officially graduate from the program, with caps and gowns and mini diplomas, and proud parents in the audience.

According to Chad Baker, Thaddeus Stevens’ director of marketing and public information, the Adopt-a-Kindergarten program is just the first in a series of events that welcome the students. They are invited back to campus for special events; fifth-graders can participate in a two-week Stevens Experience day camp; and students who qualify academically can begin their education at Stevens during their senior year of high school.

And students who participate in the Adopt-a-Kindergarten program and go on to graduate from high school are offered the chance to attend Thaddeus Stevens at no cost.
