
A study released Monday by the University of Chicago shows that an Obama presidential library located on the South Side of Chicago would pour $220 million into the city’s economy each year.

According to the study, commissioned by the university, the library would create 1,900 permanent new jobs.

In addition, the report said, construction of the library would have a $600 million economic impact on the city and create 3,280 local jobs over the course of the construction period.

The U of C is hardly a disinterested party; considered by many observers to be the frontrunner in the campaign to host the presidential library, the university has said it would like to build the library on the mid-south Side but would leave the decision on the exact location to President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama.

The university, which has been working to build support for the library within the South Side community and throughout the city, is the first to study the economic impact of such a facility.

Other major bids are expected to come from Chicago State University on the Far South Side and the University of Illinois at Chicago on the West Side. Columbia University in New York and the University of Hawaii in Honolulu also are expected to make bids to host the library before the deadline next month.

The U of C hired the economic research firm Anderson Economic Group (AEG) to conduct the study.

"Without question, the numbers resulting from the AEG analysis show that the (library) would create (a) substantial number of new jobs and be a catalyst for economic development — a significant boon to the South Side and to the City of Chicago," said Susan Sher, senior advisor to the president at the University of Chicago, in a statement.

The study estimates that 800,000 visitors would come to the library each year, including 350,000 from outside the Chicago area. They would spend about $110 million in the city.

The visitors would spend $31 million on food and retail in the surrounding neighborhood, which would be enough to support 30 new restaurants, 11 new outlets and a new hotel, the report said.
