
It was the mantra offered by politicians following the arrest of Gerry Adams two weeks ago: “Equality before the law!”, they shouted. But in an odd twist of fate, we have been reminded this week of just how vacuous that proclamation is.

Celebrations have been taking place for International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHO) in almost two thirds of the world. We should be in jubilation that such discrimination is finally getting some spotlight, but a hard dose of reality is required. A provincial quarter of this country still waspishly defies landmark progression towards equality before the law.

Last month, on April 29th, the Northern Ireland Assembly voted down the Equal Marriage Bill. It has become all too easy to cite the sanctity of voting as a bulwark in defence of draconian practices. Swathes of Northern Irish society groan at such primitive party-line voting, yet the volatility of the peace process acts as a scarecrow against critique from Westminster and even further afield.

To the uninitiated, democracy in Northern Ireland is anything but bottom-up. These results should not be seen as some sort of conservative ‘popular will’, nor a form of administrative pragmatism. A power-sharing executive with no oppositional government has led to oligarchy. The residue of power has fallen upon a small jamboree of performers (should also read as: ‘Members of the Legislative Assembly’) whose presence is only felt when inciting sectarian crowds, campaigning for reelection, and swooning foreign dignitaries.

The motion labelled as ‘Marriage Equality’ had 49 out of 53 Unionist’s vote against it, and all 34 Nationalist assembly members in support. The implications of this are profound and baffling. In an odd change of discourse, we are witnessing pro-UK politicians defying all normative shifts on the British mainland.

In contrast, we have (Irish) Nationalist MLA’s, typically Catholic-orientated, pressing equality in marriage for the third time in a row. With all the political parties in the Republic of Ireland supporting equal marriage now, any suspicions of scheming party games at Stormont can thus be ruled out from the Nationalist camp. It would seem that whether one is for a United Kingdom or a united Ireland has little and no sway in such a decision, yet the voting is reflective of these camps.

Researchers at Queen’s University Belfast, the Belfast Telegraph, and the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland all showed that the people of Northern Ireland are overwhelmingly in favour of equal marriage. They found that as much as 76% in favour overall, including majority support from Catholic, Protestant, and Secular communities alike.

The motion has been halted for now, but the outcry from civil society will inevitably prove that those that don’t bend will break. Amnesty International has warned of the legal challenges to follow, and couples may now have a case to bring to the European Court of Human Rights. It is appalling that citizens of the United Kingdom must resort to such measures.

This is a conversation that must take part across the nation, because matters of the heart will not distinguish between the legislative bodies of the United Kingdom. In a land where flags are contentious, the rainbow would be a welcome splash of colour in an otherwise grey political landscape.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Please note our disclaimer relating to comments submitted.                 Please do not post pretending to be another person.
