
SAN ANGELO, Texas - Open Carry Texas members will host two more events this month exercising their right to openly carry rifles and shotguns.

Tyler Benbow, head administrator with the Tom Green County chapter, said membership has grown from 60 members before their first event in April to 105 last week.

The organization has about 16,000 members statewide.

The walk will take place Friday along Knickerbocker Road at approximately 6 p.m., Benbow said. The following day they’ll have a walk on Bryant Boulevard that will end with the group eating at Sonic Drive-In at West Beauregard Avenue.

Both dates have been cleared with the San Angelo Police Department, he said. A police spokeswoman said no calls for service were logged about this group the last time it marched.

Benbow said the group wants to get more involved in the community and has adopted a stretch of road through the Texas Department of Transportation’s Adopt-a-Highway program. It’s unclear which portion of highway they’ll be responsible for, but the group plans to start working on cleaning up the area in the next three months.

More than $2,000 was raised for a new vehicle at a garage sale hosted to benefit the Tom Green County’s Crisis Intervention Unit.

The office hosted the event, where they also sold breakfast, in April.

Funds will go toward replacing the unit’s 15-year-old van.

The vehicle responds to calls from city, county and occasionally state law enforcement crime scenes or other crises, such as a fire, crash, suicide or natural disaster. Volunteers transport people to a safe place or, in some instances, to appointments related to the crime.

CIU coordinator Rita Guthrie said she hopes the new vehicle will seat six people, including the driver, because many of the cases involve a mother with several children.

It was the first fundraiser for the vehicle, Guthrie said. There is no monetary goal established yet or price range set on what kind of van the unit wants to purchase, she said.

Guthrie plans to apply for grant money and request $5,000 each from the city and county.

San Angelo police found that a crash on North Bryant Boulevard was not a hit and run like they originally thought.

A man and two women were sent to the hospital Thursday morning after the crash, which occurred in the 4800 block of North Bryant Boulevard.

No life-threatening injuries were reported.

The Monte Carlo they were in was flipped into the median while trying to change lanes on the two-lane northbound roadway, police said. The speed limit on that stretch of road is 65 mph.

Officer Steven Quade said he spoke with the driver of the Monte Carlo who told him the throttle stuck. The car swung toward a van, but they didn’t collide.

Jennifer Rios reports on courts and breaking news for the Standard-Times.

Ready to subscribe to the San Angelo Standard-Times? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-304-7763.
