
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A number of towns say they may impose a tax through an "all powers" clause in their charters, which are issued and amended only at the approval of the Legislature.

Cities and towns across Delaware came together swiftly last week in opposition to a bill in the state Legislature that they say could curtail their ability to recoup fees for municipal services.

Sponsored by House Speaker Pete Schwartzkopf, House Bill 333 seeks to limit the towns' authority by clarifying that municipalities may only impose a tax within their jurisdiction if that tax is specifically authorized by an act of the General Assembly.

"No matter how you read it, it's one of those subtle impositions on the powers of local government," Smyrna City Manager Dave Hugg said. "We're a separate unit of government. Our leaders were elected by our constituents to do what they deem best, and we're held accountable for that. And here's the Legislature saying, 'You can't do this or that without our OK.'"

A number of towns say they may impose a tax through an "all powers" clause in their charters, which are issued and amended only at the approval of the Legislature.

Schwartzkopf believes municipalities should have the  approval of state lawmakers to institute a new tax.

At a hearing last week, he said the bill merely reinforces language in the Delaware Constitution that says, "No tax ... may be imposed or levied except pursuant to an Act of the General Assembly, adopted with the concurrence of three-fifths of all members of each House."

"We're reaffirming what we think the General Assembly's role in taxation is. When our forefathers said three-fifths of two chambers, nowhere did they say, we're going to give taxing authority to three people sitting on town council," Schwartzkopf said.

His comments indirectly referred to  Dewey Beach and its business license fees, which have been challenged in court as an illegal tax by businessman  Alex Pires.

The Court of Chancery dismissed Pires' lawsuit in December after concluding Dewey's charter (as approved by the General Assembly) conveyed broad taxing authority to the town, and it had the power to levy business-license taxes. Pires has appealed to the state Supreme Court, where the case is pending.

The official synopsis of HB 333 indicates the bill was introduced in response to the Chancery ruling.

"I've been accused of doing this for Alex Pires. I have not done this for Alex Pires. He said if this bill did pass, he would drop his lawsuit," Schwartzkopf said. "Without Subsection C, I don't know what he'll do."

After meeting with representatives of several municipalities and the Delaware League of Local Governments, Schwartzkopf agreed last week to strike Subsection C from bill. That provision would have permitted municipalities to license and collect fees from businesses, but only if the fees  are "reasonably related" to the cost of administering the licensing program.

"That was the piece that was giving us the most heartburn," said Dick Cathcart, city manager of Delaware City and a former state lawmaker.

In regards to the provision, Newark City Council warned of the "unintended consequence of putting into question various fees outside of business licenses that the City of Newark relies upon to balance its budget every year," Councilman Stu Markham wrote to lawmakers last week.

Under Delaware law, fee amounts are supposed to be generally proportionate to the cost of service provided by the government. Those fees that are grossly disproportionate to the cost of service provided could be considered a tax, potentially subjecting the municipalities to expensive lawsuits such as those filed against Newark's rental permit fee and New Castle County's land-use fee.

Attorneys representing the towns noted that fees set at fixed percentages – for example, building-permit fees set at 3 percent of the estimated cost of construction – could be subject to challenge as not related to the cost of the government service.

Dozens of municipalities have building-permit fees of 3 percent. The lawyers said that, if the fee provision of HB 333 were adopted, a number of towns could be sued over their fees or face significant financial hardship as a result of refunds and other costs.

HB 333 was voted out of the House Administration Committee last week. Cathcart said he expects changes to the draft bill this week, including language that would "grandfather in" existing municipal taxes and fees.

But Dewey Mayor Diane Hanson says the bill encroaches on the autonomy of towns.

"What problem is there? I see it as an end run around our court system," Hanson testified during a hearing last week.
