
Ten Network staff are bracing for a new round of sweeping cost-cutting which will make hundreds of news and production employees redundant and mark the end of the largely unwatched breakfast show Wake Up.

Sources told Guardian Australia on Monday management was poised to announce the cancellation of Wake Up, with Natarsha Belling and James Mathison, and make changes to Ten Eyewitness News bulletins around the country.

It is understood the state-based bulletins will retain their own news readers, but off-camera employees such as technicians, camera people, floor staff and editors who produce local news will be shed.

Some managers have been asked to halve their staff numbers. Some reporters may also be made redundant.

A spokesman for Ten said: "We don’t comment on rumours and speculation."

Ten posted an $8m loss for the first six months of the network’s financial year.

Wake Up, which never averaged more than 30,000 viewers, or 10% of the rival breakfast shows, will disappear 18 months after the network axed its first breakfast experiment, Breakfast with Paul Henry.

Breakfast also failed to lure the audience from Nine’s Today and Seven’s Sunrise, but it did manage a higher average than Wake Up. Breakfast lasted a mere nine months and averaged 40,000 viewers.

Ten’s news chief, Peter Meakin, has made no secret of the fact that Wake Up was on the chopping block if its ratings didn’t improve.

“Any show that rates the way Wake Up does obviously does not have a long-term future and that’s just a fact,” Meakin said in February. “It’s looking at maybe another six months unless it starts to do a lot better.” But it hasn’t been given that long, with an announcement expected within the week.

Its companion show, Studio 10, is largely funded by advertorials and will stay, sources said.

Last week Ten failed to back Wake Up producers over a controversial segment with the prime minister, Tony Abbott, who was subjected to a grilling by pensioner Vilma Ward , who turned out to have Labor party links.

“Wake Up should have known and disclosed Vilma Ward’s links to the Labor party,” a Ten spokesman said. The program subsequently issued an apolog y.

Wake Up was the brainchild of Adam Boland, a former breakfast producer who quit the network months after the program launched, after a bout of ill health. He promised a revolution in breakfast television, setting the show on the Manly beachfront and building a costly pipeline to the Pyrmont studios.

But the show was in trouble from the start, and in its third week one of the three presenters, Natasha Exelby, had been removed.

At the time, Ten’s chief executive, Hamish McLennan, promised to back the show for two years. “It's a two-year deal for us, so in no way did we think we were going to do anything more than the numbers we got," he said after it launched in November to low numbers.

"We felt it was important for us, and you look at the success of Today and Sunrise, and as Adam Boland – who is a terrific EP and a great creative person – likes to say, it's 'the window to the network',” McLennan said. "And if you just look at how successfully Channel Nine and Seven have been able to cross-promote their shows from the morning, and people turning on their television and watching those shows, they carry that audience right throughout the day."

McLennan is Ten’s fourth chief executive in four years. He added executive chairman to his duties this year after Lachlan Murdoch stood down as Ten chairman to take up the new role of non-executive co-chairman in his family company, News Corp.

For the three years Murdoch ran Ten the network was subjected to major redundancies, cost-cutting and executive upheaval.

The return of MasterChef Australia this month has lifted the ratings somewhat, with the audiences reaching almost 1m on Sunday night.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
