
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Tax Analysts is the leading publisher of tax news, analysis and commentary for the global community. More than 150,000 tax professionals in law and accounting firms, corporations, and government agencies rely on our in-depth federal, state, and international content each day. We have the industry's largest tax-dedicated correspondent staff, with more than 250 domestic and international correspondents. Our experts consist of lawyers, professors, practitioners, economists, and historians who author books, testify before Congress, and write articles and op-eds for leading newspapers. They are frequently quoted and featured in national publications and news outlets. In addition, Tax Analysts works to defend the public interest by advocating for greater transparency in tax policy and government, fostering dialogue between taxing authorities, and providing forums for tax policy education and debate. Visit us today at www.taxanalysts.com and be a part of the conversation on Facebook at www.facebook.com/TaxAnalysts.org and Twitter @TaxAnalysts.

The IRS needs help rediscovering its mission, warned former IRS Commissioner Larry Gibbs after receiving the Distinguished Service Award at the most recent American Bar Association Section of Taxation meeting. Mr. Gibbs is a man who would know what an IRS in trouble looks like. He became commissioner right after the historically disastrous filing season of 1985, and among his many undertakings at the IRS was implementing a little tax law known as the Tax Reform Act of 1986.

In his  acceptance speech , Mr. Gibbs noted that it was at last year’s tax section meeting when IRS official Lois Lerner first acknowledged that the IRS had abused its power while vetting conservative groups seeking tax-exempt status as social welfare organizations. Since Lerner’s fateful announcement, the IRS has been under siege by critics, both inside Congress and outside, among outraged American citizens. And through it all the IRS has often looked less than competent and, worse, less than cooperative.

As I listened to Mr. Gibbs deliver this message I was riveted. And although he was speaking to a roomful of tax lawyers, I think he was really talking to all of us.

As I wrote almost a year ago, the  IRS is in trouble . Punishing it will do no more good than ignoring what has happened over the last year. The former seems to be the plan of House Republicans; the latter appears to be the White House plan. We need to fix it, and that is harder than either of the above two approaches.

In the interest of full disclosure, Larry Gibbs is a member of the Tax Analysts board of directors, and I consider him a personal friend and mentor. That’s how I know he cares deeply about our tax system and believes it is not in a good place right now. As someone who has been involved in our tax system for more than 50 years, he knows what he’s talking about.

To both Larry Gibbs and Chris Bergin, I say Amen.

The fact is hat the current IRS has very little oversight. Outside of the false “targeting” allegations, and hearing on that, there is no overall IRS oversight.

There are zero IRS misconduct hearings, yet there is substantial IRS misconduct that gets no publicity. In effect, there is no IRS oversight and the IRS does not have a tax attorney as Commissioner – it has a manager who had no way of understanding any incident of IRS misconduct.

The problem with Congressional tax committees in the House and Senate focus on what the lobbyists give them to focus. There is no agenda for resolving IRS misconduct.

Giving the reductions or the IRS budget and the failure of Congress to fully fund the IRS according to its needs, the IRS hires low-end employees. An increasing number of those low-end employees (many of whom would no qualify to work at a seven-eleven store), speak with difficult to understand foreign accents.

Another problem with the lack of IRS oversight is that the employees making technical decisions have managers who are “managers” and not competent with technical training or experience.

The organization is getting worse. And it is due to the fact that the IRS has no interest in comprehensive IRS oversight.
