
Home Page >> News Articles >> Affected Workers Try to Put the Kibosh i..

Sacramento, CA: As California Labor Commissioner Julie A. Su announced a statewide, multilingual campaign to educate workers and employers about the crime of wage theft and other issues related to California labor law , a putative class of Robert Bosch LLC employees pushed to keep alive a lawsuit that accused the employer of underpaying workers Bosch transferred to the US from India.

There are also allegations that Bosch directed the foreign workers to repay tax refunds. The defendant attempted to have the lawsuit dismissed. However, the plaintiffs argued in California federal court last month against the granting of any motion to dismiss.

According to court documents, the lead plaintiff in the case was hired by the American subsidiary of Robert Bosch GmbH as an engineer and came to the US from India on a work visa. Suraj Kamath alleged in his November 2013 lawsuit that Bosch announced in 2012 that all non-US citizens employed by the company were required to repay all tax refunds across a four-year period from 2006 to 2011. The employer, according to plaintiff documents, remitted income payments on behalf of non-US citizens to taxation authorities.

“Bosch informed plaintiff that, if he did not sign a form declaration promising to pay Bosch the full amount of his tax refunds, Bosch would fire him, require him to return to India, make his life miserable, make sure that his life and career would be destroyed, make sure that he would not find another job anywhere and pursue criminal and civil lawsuits against him,” the complaint said.

The California labor lawsuit is Suraj Kamath v. Robert Bosch LLC et al., Case No. 2:13-cv-08540, in the US District Court for the Central District of California.

Meanwhile, the state’s driven labor commissioner is taking adherence to the California labor code to new heights with an awareness campaign that is intended to bring the message of fair and equitable pay and working conditions to low-wage workers throughout California.

The awareness campaign, which will be distributed through print, electronic and social media, is an addendum to increased enforcement of California labor employment law by Su’s office and that of the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement, which falls under the Department of Industrial Relations (DIR).

Violations to California and labor law not only cheat an employee out of earned pay, meal breaks and rest periods, but also provide the company responsible with an unfair advantage over those competitors abiding by the rules.

If you or a loved one have suffered losses in this case, please click the link below and your complaint will be sent to an employment law lawyer who may evaluate your California Labor Law claim at no cost or obligation.

Fields marked * are mandatory. Please read our comment guidelines before posting.

Your email will only be used if a response is needed.
