
The neo-Nazi party’s strong showing in local elections, despite harsh gov't crackdown on the party, is serious problem, says Foxman.

Anti-Defamation League national director Abraham Foxman on Monday called on  Greeks to reject Golden Dawn when going to polls in next week’s European  Parliamentary elections.

The ultra-nationalist party’s stronger than  expected showing in Sunday’s local elections, despite a harsh government  crackdown on the party, are indicative of a serious problem, Foxman  said.

Golden Dawn spokesman Ilias Kasidiaris received more than 16  percent of Sunday’s vote in the race for mayor of Athens, while the party’s  candidate for governor of the Attica region got more than 11%. In  Thessaloniki, Greece’s second largest city, their candidate received almost 8%,  according to election results released Monday.

While none of the Golden  Dawn candidates made it through to the second round of voting to be held next  Sunday, when elections to the European Parliament will also be held, the strong  showing by the neo-Nazi party prompted concern from the government.

“When  16% of Athenians vote for a man known for having a swastika tattoo on his  shoulder, we should not be satisfied that no Golden Dawn candidate made it to  the second round,” Foxman told The Jerusalem Post.

Despite the  government’s crackdown, he continued, “the neo-Nazi party scored better in the  local elections than they did in the national elections in 2012,” when it won 18  out of 300 seats in parliament.

The government’s attempts to suppress the  party came late last year after a supporter of the faction murdered a popular  left-wing rapper, triggering a wave of arrests of senior Golden Dawn officials  and the cessation of government funding to the party.

“We hope the Greek  voters will follow the prime minister’s lead and choose in the election to the  European Parliament not to export Golden Dawn’s ultra-nationalist, hate-filled,  anti-Semitic ideology and rhetoric to Strasbourg and Brussels,” Foxman  said.

Jewish groups have largely been supportive of Greece’s efforts,  with the World Jewish Congress having called for a European-wide ban on “neo-Nazi” parties such as Hungary’s Jobbik – which garnered a fifth of the vote  in recent elections – and Ukraine’s Svoboda.

Golden Dawn has been accused  of being behind dozens of attacks on immigrants in Greece. The party is known  for its Nazi swastika-like flag and Holocaust-denying leadership.

There  are currently about 5,000 Jews living in Greece, down from over 70,000 before  the Holocaust.

In explaining Golden Dawn’s electoral successes last year,  David Saltiel, then president of the Central Board of Jewish Communities in  Greece, told the Post that economic factors alone cannot explain its meteoric  rise, a repudiation of some who say that the rise of the right in Europe is in  large part due to economic malaise.

It is impossible to say that people  voted for Golden Dawn “because of the economic situation,” he said, adding that  the party is in part buoyed by resentment against mainstream parties plagued by  persistent corruption scandals.

Saltiel’s assertions that there are  deeper causes for the party’s widespread popularity seem to be born out by a  recent ADL survey that found that the most anti-Semitic country outside of the  Middle East and North Africa was Greece, with a 69% anti-Semitism  rate.

According to the survey, out of over 9 million Greeks, 6,300,000  harbor anti-Semitic attitudes.

The rise of such parties in a number of  European nations has local Jews worried.

Last month, European Jewish  Congress President Dr. Moshe Kantor asserted that “normative Jewish life  in Europe is unsustainable” as long as the continent’s Jews continue to live in  fear.

A third of Jews polled by the EU’s Fundamental  Rights Agency in 2012 stated they refrain from wearing religious garb or Jewish  symbols out of fear.

Just under a quarter of respondents (23%) said that  they avoid attending Jewish events or going to Jewish venues.

JTA contributed to this report.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
