
Sign in with your TWC ID to access our video clips.

install Adobe Flash 9 or above. Install now .

Then come back here and refresh the page.

CHAPEL HILL — Dozens gathered in Chapel Hill Sunday to voice their disappointment with how the South Korean government handled last month's ferry tragedy.

Hundreds of schoolchildren and adults lost their lives after their boat capsized in South Korean waters in April. They were heading to an island for a school field trip.

Protestors said the government overlooked safety regulations, was slow to respond to the accident and shielded the real story from the local media.

"Initially reports went out that everyone on this ferry had been saved," Michael Han said. "That turned out to be completely false."

Protestors wore black yellow ribbons to symbolize their sympathy and unity.

"The parents were moved by the fact that they can no longer trust the country that they call home to respond properly," Han said.

Korean officials have charged several in the tragedy, including the crew. Top officials have publicly apologized and the country's Prime Minister resigned, but protestors said more needs to be done and changed, calling for more accountability and transparency to prevent another disaster.

Severe storms moving into Raleigh on March 12, 2014.  Photo taken on the campus of William Peace University by Brittney Hobson.

Fun in the sun or fun in the snow!?  Snow at Atlantic Beach from January 29, 2014.  Photo by Sam O'Berry.

These ducks appear a little confused as water puddles turned to ice with the recent Arctic blast.  Photo from January 8, 2014 in Huntersville.  Photo by Misty Lackey.

Oak Island sunset.  Photo by Martha King.

Sunrise at Hillandale Golf Course in Durham.  Photo by Wendell Hull.

Partial solar eclipse Sunday morning, November 3, 2013.  Photo taken at Crescent Beach, SC  by Chris Woodward.

Sunrise from Durham on October 6, 2013.  Photo by Wendell Hull.

Sign in with your TWC ID to access our video clips.

© 1999-2014 Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC. All Rights Reserved.
