
We use cookies, internal and external, to improve your experience by offering content related to your preferences. By continuing to browse you are agreeing to our cookies policy .

The pair is looking to consolidate last week’s rejection from the 0.9400 area, which bulls still cannot convincingly break. In the meantime, market participants will closely follow tomorrow’s RBA minutes while keeping an eye on the iron ore, as price is threatening the critical support at 100/tn. “The $0.9400 are remains the key barrier to the upside, but the enthusiasm for the downside has waned.  The Australian dollar may be tracing out an A-B-C correction after the big advance that carried it from around $0.8700 at the end of January to almost $0.9500 in the first half of April.  If this is view is accurate, the Australian dollar should begin to trade more heavily in the day ahead.  A break of the 20-day moving average near $0.9320 would offer confirmation”, noted analysts at BBH.

The pair is now losing 0.16% at 0.9349 with the next support at 0.9227 (low Apr.29) ahead of 0.9225 (low Apr.4) and finally 0.9184 (50-d MA). On the upside, a break above 0.9427 (high Apr.11) would aim for 0.9461 (high Apr.10) and then 0.9500 (psychological level).

Pablo Piovano, Economist and Lead European Editor, joined FXStreet in 2011 having worked in and managed Asset Allocation and Investment Research teams for a number of South American Financial Institutions.

© 2014 “FXStreet. The Forex Market” All Rights Reserved. Every effort is made to provide accurate and complete information. However, with the thousands of documents available, often uploaded within short deadlines, we cannot guarantee that there will be no errors. Any republication or redistribution of FXStreet content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of FXStreet.

Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.

Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this story, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.

FXStreet and ForexStreet among the best Forex content Sites and Blogs to Follow in 2014.

Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement . Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer .

Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.

Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and Omissions may occur.Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.

©2014 "FXStreet. The Forex Market" All Rights Reserved.
