
DETROIT (WWJ) – Detroit’s police chief is interviewed in the most recent issue of “America’s First Freedom” — an NRA magazine —  voicing his support for the right to bear arms.

Craig, whose photo appears on the cover, says being featured in the magazine does not mean he advocates violence; he just strongly believes in the right to protect one’s self.

“We’re talking about people who are faced with an imminent threat or great bodily injury. That’s what we’re talking about here. So I stand by that, I support it,” ” Craig told WWJ Newsradio 950’s Jackie Paige in a live interview on Monday.

“Certainly there are a lot of Detroiters, not just in Detroit, but certainly our suburban neighbors, who approach me daily and express their support because folks are sick and tired of being victims,” he said.

Craig said he’s been approached by “droves of people” who have praised him for speaking out on this issue.

“I know that some of my colleagues in the some of the other major cities probably feel the same way, but certainly may not wanna come out front with it,” Craig said.

Craig said he could cite countless such incidents.

In a statement out last month , the he Detroit Coalition Against Police Brutality spoke out against what they’re calling the Detroit Police Department’s irresponsible rhetoric defending vigilantism.

On Monday, the group said Craig’s NRA cover story sends the wrong message at the wrong time.

“In a time when the citizens of Detroit are trying to find their way out of the current cycle of violence, this is not the time for the Department to use the Chief’s public persona to unify with the political posture of the National Rifle Association. This is a public safety and community issue, not simply a Second Amendment issue,” said DCAPB spokesperson Ron Scott.

“I didn’t write the law. I mean (it’s a) 200-year-old law, the Second Amendment: the right to protect, self-defense,” Craig said.

When a citizen does resort to deadly force, Craig said, whether or not it’s justified is not his call. He’ll leave that up to the prosecutor to decide.

One WWJ listener says she believes Chief Craig is right when it comes to citizens protecting themselves. She said her mother was robbed and killed outside her home.

The woman, who didn’t give her name, moved out of Detroit to Redford, and won’t consider going back until something changes.

The listener, who left a message on our comment line and remained anonymous, said she believes bringing the death penalty back in Michigan will curb violence.

©2014 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.
