
A woman whose husband is dying of cancer was told by a holiday company to 'take someone else with you' when she tried to cancel their Spanish anniversary holiday.

Chris Quick, 58, and her husband Keith, 61, of Southsea, had booked and paid for a trip to Benidorm next month to celebrate their 38th wedding anniversary.

They were also looking forward to another trip in October to the Spanish resort, where they have friends.

But when Mr Quick went to the GP about a persistent cough, the couple were given the devastating news he had lung cancer.

Last week they were told it is terminal and they told travel operator Thomson's Hilsea branch that the two Benidorm breaks would have to be scrapped.

The company warned however that not all of the money would be refunded and suggested Mrs Quick should find another travel companion.

Mr Quick said ‘I’m so disgusted we have been treated this way.

'I never expected to get cancer, yet this isn’t an exceptional circumstance for them.

'All of this has been so emotional and hasn’t helped at all.

'I wanted to say goodbye to my friends one last time, and I won’t be able to.'

Mrs Quick, who worked at a women’s refuge before she retired, said: 'We go out to Benidorm about four times a year every year to see our friends out there.

'I am so angry about this. It’s not about the money as we are sorting it with our insurance.

'I want an apology for the way we have been spoken to. This has been a very emotional time for us.

'When we got given this terrible news I told my daughter to ring Thomson to cancel the holiday for us.'

She said 'The attitude of the person on the phone was appalling - I was told to "shut up" at one point.

'There was no empathy to my dad’s situation. He didn’t want this to happen.

'Mum and dad have used Thomson for the past four years and thought they would show more compassion.

'Instead they suggested my mum should go on holiday with someone else.'

Thomson have so far paid back £538 for the holiday in June, which cost £1,900.

Refunds for the October holiday have still not been sorted out.

According to Thomson's website, customers who have travel insurance with Thomson Insurance may be covered if they were unaware they had a condition at the time of booking.

The company does say however the insurance does not cover those who knew there was a possibility they may have to cancel.

In more general circumstances, the Citizens Advice Bureau says under package holiday regulations, customers 'only have the right to cancel if your organiser has made major changes to your holiday.'

It goes on to say: 'If your organiser hasn’t made any changes to your holiday your right to cancel will depend on the terms and conditions of your holiday contract. You may be able to cancel your holiday but your organiser might charge you a cancellation fee.

'You will normally be able to find information about your organiser’s cancellation policy in your holiday brochure or with your booking information'.

A spokesman said: 'Thomson is very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Quick were unhappy with the service they received when cancelling their holiday.

'We sympathise with their situation and understand this must be a very difficult time.

'Our customer service and retail teams always aim to offer the best possible service to all customers and this includes providing them with details of all the options available to them.

'We would like to reassure the couple that we never intended to cause offence or undue upset by providing this information.

'As their holiday has now been cancelled we have advised Mr and Mrs Quick to contact their insurance provider to settle their claim.'

In February this year, MailOnline reported on grandfather Bruce Crawcour who won a full refund from Thomson Holidays in a landmark case.

Mr Crawcour, 66, launched his battle with parent company TUI Travel after he was forced to cancel a holiday when his wife Kay, 63, fell ill.

Instead they charged him the full £2,256 for the two-week break the couple were due to have last May in Majorca at the luxury Protur Biomar Gran Hotel.

But the retired civil servant managed to prove the company was not out of pocket after the flights and hotel room vanished from the Thomson website before the departure date. He argued this meant they had managed to sell the package on.

In February, he became one of the first holidaymakers in the UK to be awarded damages from a tour operator for a cancelled holiday. The pensioner, who represented himself at Telford Small Claims Court, was awarded a full refund as well as £300 court costs.

At the time it was reported the ruling could spell major changes for holidaymakers who follow suit and sue travel firms over cancellation clauses in package holiday contracts.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
