
Evil taxi driver Mohammed Ashraf, 53, admitted luring the girl to a flat when she was just 14 and raping her.

He is now awaiting sentence but the victim says her ordeal is still going on and is made worse by a cruel whispering campaign in her community.

She believes Ashraf, from Edinburgh, who also harassed her older sister, was banking on her keeping quiet because she was afraid of bringing dishonour to her family.

The girl, now 15, who cannot be named for legal reasons, refused to be intimidated.

But she says such fear of dishonour is keeping similar sex attacks hidden in Scotland’s Asian communities, the Daily Record reports.

And last night, she hit out at the people who blamed her for Ashraf’s crime.

She said: “They don’t want to believe a man would do this.

“It is disgusting that anyone can think that this was my fault. That hurts me so much. He thought that I would keep quiet because it would dishonour my family.

Ashraf is due to be sentenced next month at the High Court in Edinburgh for the rape, which happened when he took the girl shopping just before Christmas last year.

She hadn’t wanted to go but her mother insisted she did as Ashraf was a respected family friend.

Arrogant Ashraf, who had a restaurant, shop and flats in Edinburgh before running into financial problems, was a manipulative bully with a history of preying on women.

But he felt invincible because no one had complained.

He duped the slightly built teenager into joining him in a relative’s empty Edinburgh flat, claiming he needed to use the toilet.

Although she tried desperately to fight him off, he was too strong.

He callously told her that the quicker she enjoyed what he was doing, the quicker he would let her go.

And he taunted her that no one would believe her if she told them about the attack because he was a respected man.

Ashraf knew that the girl would suffer the shame of no longer being considered pure.

But the victim bravely told her 19-year-old sister, who Ashraf had previously tried to blackmail into going with him to the same flat. She then called the police.

The sister said last night: “I knew that this would happen but I didn’t think it would happen to my sister. I thought it would happen to me.

The victim says she will never recover from the horror of that day.

She was so devastated that she couldn’t return to school for more than a month and her sister also missed her classes. Her weight has plummeted and she has become withdrawn.

She said not even counselling had helped and she hoped that Ashraf would rot in jail.

She said: “I looked up to him like a father figure but if I can’t trust a father figure, then I can’t trust anyone.

Ashraf, who exploited the fact that the sisters’ mother was a single parent, had harassed the older girl by claiming he had proof she had been flirting with boys.

She said last night: “I knew that what he was saying wasn’t true so I ignored him but he got more and more aggressive.

She kept the messages but also her silence, fearing that she wouldn’t be believed.

In the past, Ashraf had struck two female relatives but they were too scared to go to the police.

Ashraf once threatened to burn down his victim’s family’s house if the girls disobeyed him and visited a relative he disapproved of.

The sister said: “My family were scared of him.

Ashraf had chosen the day of the rape carefully, knowing that his victim’s sister was busy with a driving lesson.

But she knew something was seriously wrong when she returned home and saw the distraught girl.

She phoned the police straight away but her mother was initially hesitant to report the rape, knowing that it would become public.

The sister said: “The key issue is people talking about you and giving your family a bad name.

“There is still a culture in the Asian community where a lot of people will blame the victim rather than the perpetrator.

“Mohammed was using honour to do what he wanted. We need to move on as a community and stop shoving this kind of terrible thing under the carpet.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
