
A 22-year-old woman gave birth to the parasitic twins last month in a tiny government-run hospital in their village but soon rushed to a hospital in the northern state of Rajasthan for further tests.

Tanzeel Ur Rehman/Cover Asia Press A baby was born in India with a head attached to her stomach. Doctors will attempt surgery to remove the extra head.

A baby has been born to a woman in India with a head attached to the stomach.

Amlekha Bairva, 22, gave birth to the parasitic twins last month in a tiny government-run hospital in their village but soon rushed to JK Lone Hospital, in Jaipur, in the northern state of Rajasthan, for further tests.

The baby girl, yet to be named, was born naturally and weighed four pounds and eight ounces, but the head of her twin is clearly formed and attached by the neck to the baby's stomach.

The baby is now under medical observation in the neonatal intensive care unit at the hospital and doctors are hoping to attempt surgery to detach the extra head as soon as her condition is stable.

Tanzeel Ur Rehman/Cover Asia Press A baby born with a head attached to her abdomen is examined at hospital in India.

Dr Chetan Sharma, Pediatric surgeon, at JK Lone Hospital, who will perform the surgery, is hopeful that an operation would be successful.

"This is a case of Hetropagus twinning or commonly known as Parasitic twinning. In such cases surgery is successful," he said.

"She's a healthy child with a normal heartbeat. She doesn't have any other internal or external complexities and that increases her chances of survival. We are confident that the surgery would be successful and the girl will lead a normal life with no future complexities in the future."

Amlekha and her husband Ramji Lal Bairva 29, who also have a 5-year-old son, were too poor to have an ultrasound during the pregnancy so the complications went unnoticed.

Ramji Lal, who is a daily laborer, said he was shocked to see his daughter.

"I didn't take my wife to the doctor during her pregnancy as I did not have money for any treatment," he said. "Also my first child was born normal so I never thought there could be any complications with my second child. When I saw my daughter, I could not believe my eyes, I couldn't pick her up."

'She's a healthy child with a normal heartbeat,' the baby's surgeon said.

MRI scans show baby born with head attached to the abdomen.

'I have faith in God. I am hoping the operation is successful and she leads a healthy life like any other child,' Ramji Lal added.

The hospital has confirmed that they will not charge the family for any health or surgery costs.

Parasitic twins occur when a twin embryo begins developing in the utero but the pair doesn't fully separate, and one embryo maintains a dominant development at the expense of the other.

Explore our archive of over 200 daily comics today.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
