
Queensland Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney has confirmed that former assistant health minister Chris Davis will remain in the LNP.

Dr Davis was sacked from the Newman Ministry last week after he spoke out against doctor contracts and changes to the Crime and Misconduct Commission.

Premier Campbell Newman said Dr Davis was dismissed for breaching Cabinet solidarity, although the Premier also described him as a man of great integrity.

An LNP party room meeting discussed the matter this afternoon.

Mr Seeney emerged from the meeting just before 5:00pm (AEST) to tell speak to awaiting reporters about Dr Davis.

"He has apologised to the party room for the grief that he caused," Mr Seeney said.

Mr Seeney says Dr Davis, the Member for Stafford, got a dressing down at the party room meeting.

"In the main, the issues were raised by Dr Davis's colleagues - so all of the comments made to him were made by his colleagues - not by me, or the Treasurer, or anyone in a leadership position," Mr Seeney said.

Mr Seeney says he is pleased Dr Davis will remain a member of the LNP.

"I think everybody who spoke in the party room expressed a desire for Dr Davis to remain as part of our team, and we're very pleased that he has decided to do that," he said.

Outside the meeting, Dr Davis denied that he has been gagged.

"I will keep speaking out within the party room and working hopefully a lot more effectively within the party room, he said.

"Nobody has for one moment indicated to me that I should stop speaking on behalf of my community.

"It's the process that has been, I guess, challenged, with me speaking outside of the party room.

"I certainly acknowledged any distress that my comments may have caused - that was not my intention.

"My intention all along has been to actually serve my electorate."

Dr Davis will remain the LNP member for the Brisbane seat of Stafford and has confirmed he will contest the next election.

The donation laws are due to be debated in Parliament on Thursday.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
