
Popular crime writers have revealed that women love to read about other women being murdered, especially if the novel's killer is also female.

In countless works of crime fiction female characters often meet a sticky end at the hands of a killer, with publishers frequently using images hinting at terrified women victims on their front covers.

And in recent years the genre has become even gorier, according to some crime writers, with one claiming that women prefer her books to be as gruesome as possible, and that women prefer the killer to be female.

Crime fiction is one of the UK's most popular genres of literature with around £90million of the books sold every year, and an increasing number of fictional detectives making the leap from the page to the screen in television adaptations.

Leading author Val McDermid, whose  series of novels featuring characters Tony Hill and Carol Jordan  inspired the television show Wire In The Blood, said that women authors  were able to add a more personal perspective when writing about women  than their male counterparts - and were better at scaring their readers.

The Scottish author, who recently published her own version of the Jane Austen classic Northanger Abbey said that female writers were also better at scaring their readers.

'Publishers have never been able to see a  bandwagon without leaping to catch it. We can take the moral high ground  but the job of a publisher is to sell books,' she told The Times .

Last week's CrimeFest convention in Bristol was attended by hundreds of fans who flocked to discussion panels featuring some of their favourite authors - including one entitled Death In High Heels: Women As Victims.

One of the authors featured in the discussion was Jessie Keane, who is behind the Annie Carter series which is set in the London criminal underworld and features a women at the heart of a powerful East End gang.

Ms Keane told the convention that her female readers preferred her books to be violent, and that one of her contemporaries - another woman writer penning novels for a largely female audience - had found her sales had increased once she started writing about hard crime and graphic violence.

Moderator and fellow crime writer Ruth Dudley Edwards told the convention that a large proportion of readers of violent crime novels were young women.

Ms Keane responded: 'Young women find it fascinating.  Maybe they feel they can examine violence in a safe way: they are  seeing it at a safe distance.'

It has been claimed that British authors have upped the violence in their novels after being influenced by a wave of Nordic writers including Stieg Laarson who wrote the Millennium Trilogy including The Girl With A Dragon Tattoo.

However, authors speaking at the convention said that novels by British writers had featured graphic subject matter.

Jessica Mann, an author and fiction reviewer, did add that she had noted an increase in sadism in recent years, and added that a fellow female writer had argued with her publishers who had wanted to put a naked woman on the front cover - even though her victim was a man.

Describing the practice of having a tortured woman on the front cover as strange she added: 'There has been a ratcheting up of torture in books. The books start with a woman being abducted and then she has lots of nasty things done to her, then it gets worse and worse.'

Alison Joseph, chairman of the Crime Writer's Association and author of the Sister Agnes novels told MailOnline that many young women were fans of crime fiction because the victims were women.

'When you write a crime novel your reader needs to believe in what is going on,' said Ms Joseph, whose latest novel Dying To Know centres on the mysterious death of a particle physicist.

'A woman in danger is believable and a lot of crime readers are young women because those are their real concerns.

'Although a crime novel is an escape, it's a story, we need it to be believable and there needs to be something that makes you think "what if that was me?" There is a huge market for it.

'I don't know if there will be a backlash against the genre but I can't see we'll want to go back to drawing room stories again.'

Ms Joseph said that though crime novels were sometimes violent she did not know if this was a recent phenomenon.

'Some of the crime novels written after the First World War where people were used to seeing streets strewn with rubble and bodies so maybe they wanted a lower body count,' she said.

'But I was reading Margery Allingham, who was writing after the war and is normally lumped in with polite crime stories, but there is still a lot of violence in her work. There is still murder and it is still believable.'

She added: 'I don't know if crime writing is getting gorier, it's an easy thing that people say.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
