
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

BRUSSELS--The European Union will monitor next week's presidential election in Egypt, the bloc said Monday, after Egyptian authorities finally cleared the delivery of key equipment to the EU team there.

However, with the vote just days away, it remained unclear how effectively the monitors would be able to oversee campaigning and voting outside Egypt's capital.

The spat over the equipment underscored what has become a testy relationship between the EU and Egypt's new authorities. It also raised fresh doubts about whether the coming vote will be truly free and fair.

On Saturday, the EU said it had canceled the Egypt-wide mission because it had been unable to deliver telecommunications and other equipment vital to allow the monitors to effectively oversee the vote. At the time, the EU said it was "willing" to conduct a more limited oversight operation restricted just to Cairo.

The EU has already sent 40 monitors to Cairo but the delay in receiving the equipment meant they weren't able to deploy elsewhere.

On Monday, Michael Mann, spokesman for European Union foreign affairs chief Catherine Ashton, said the equipment had "finally" been cleared thanks to Egypt's foreign ministry.

Officials said Egyptian customs authorities had previously held up the equipment despite what an EU official said was "repeated requests" for its release. The delay raised questions about whether Egypt's interim authorities were trying to stymie the mission, which they had originally proposed.

"Our intention remains to have the elections mission deployed as widely as possible outside Cairo and with a fair number of observers in the field: in the run-up to elections, on the election day and during the aggregation of results," Mr. Mann told reporters.

He acknowledged the limits on efforts to monitor the vote outside Cairo. "Clearly we are at a stage where time is relatively short," Mr. Mann said.

Egyptians are due to vote in the election May 25-26. The vote is the first since the military ousted former President Mohammed Morsi amid large-scale antigovernment protests last summer.

Former Army Chief Abdel Fattah Al Sisi is the favorite to win. If elected, he has pledged to complete a crackdown against the Muslim Brotherhood, of which Mr. Morsi was a leading member.

Egypt's government released a statement Monday welcoming the monitoring mission. It said the release of the equipment came after phone calls from the ministry to other state institutions.

The head of the EU mission, European Parliament member Mario David, said Monday that the mission will present initial findings on the election process two days after the vote and will submit a more comprehensive analysis of the election later on.

The mission "does not legitimize an electoral process nor does it validate any election results," he said in a statement.

The threat to cancel the nationwide mission was a rare one for the EU, which routinely conducts such operations in countries far less developed than Egypt. The bloc currently has missions at work in Guinea Bissau, Malawi and Maldives.

Among the mission's task is to assess the legal framework for the election, oversee the performance of electoral authorities, monitor media performance and oversee the voting and the counting of results.

The EU has struggled to shape its approach to Egypt since Mr. Morsi's ousting. It didn't condemn the military intervention but had developed close ties with the former president. Some member states were outspoken in opposing the military takeover. Others, like the U.K., have sought to maintain close ties with the new authorities.

Tamer El-Ghobashy in Cairo contributed to this article.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
