
The Fall River Police Department will conduct an internal investigation into a police lieutenant who was arrested last month on drunken driving charges in Swansea.

The Fall River Police Department will conduct an internal investigation into a police lieutenant who was arrested last month on drunken driving charges in Swansea.

Fall River Police Lt. Eduardo M. Raposo, 54, was on sick leave due to a “significant illness” at the time of his Jan. 12 arrest, police said. He remains on sick leave; an internal police department investigation will be conducted when his case is adjudicated and after he returns from sick leave, said Fall River Police Lt. Kevin Tetrault.

Raposo, a 25-year police department veteran, is currently assigned as a watch commander in the Uniform Division.

On Jan. 12, Raposo was allegedly intoxicated behind the wheel when he rear-ended and side-swiped a vehicle at the intersection of Route 6 and Gardners Neck Road in Swansea. The vehicle’s occupants were not seriously injured, according to court documents.

Swansea Police Officer Richard Gibeau stopped Raposo’s BMW about a half-mile from the accident. Gibeau wrote in his report that Raposo was unresponsive and stared ahead when Gibeau first asked for his driver’s license and registration.

After asking him again for his license, Gibeau said Raposo told him, “You know me.” Gibeau said he then recognized Raposo because they had worked on a case several years prior, according to court records.

According to Gibeau’s report, Raposo slurred his words and said that he had been drinking. Raposo asked Gibeau several times if he could bring him home, and became irate when Gibeau asked him to step out of his vehicle, according to court documents.

“I’m a (expletive) cop. Can’t you give me a ride home?” Raposo asked Gibeau, according to the incident report.

A few minutes later, Gibeau said, he grabbed Raposo’s arm and removed him from the vehicle. Raposo was unsteady on his feet and had to be held by two officers so that he would not fall, court records said.

Gibeau arrested Raposo at the scene, and drove him to the Swansea Police Station for booking. While traveling to the station, Gibeau said, Raposo told him that he had just passed his house, according to court documents.

Raposo, 5 Kensington Court, Swansea, was charged with operating under the influence of liquor, leaving the scene of property damage and negligent operation of a motor vehicle.

He was arraigned last month in Fall River District Court and released on personal recognizance. He is scheduled to return to court Feb. 13 for a pretrial hearing.

His defense attorney, Joseph Silvia, did not return a phone call Tuesday seeking comment.

Raposo’s arrest last month was not the first time he has been arrested and criminally charged during his law enforcement career. In September 2005, state police arrested Raposo on indecent exposure and open and gross lewdness charges at an Interstate 195 rest area in Swansea. A state police trooper alleged that Raposo was masturbating about 100 yards away from two families eating lunch. However, the open and gross lewdness charge was subsequently dismissed, and Raposo was acquitted of the indecent exposure charge during a June 2006 bench trial in Fall River District Court, according to court records. Raposo returned to duty a few months later, according to Herald News archives.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
