
SCHOOLS in Bristol are being offered the opportunity to create a generation of young life savers – free of charge.

St John Ambulance is using funds raised in the South West to deliver first aid training to seven to 11-year-olds as part of the charity's aim of teaching 18,000 children in the region by the end of 2014.

The charity claims that only a handful of Bristol's schoolchildren would know what to do if a family member become ill.

Meanwhile, teachers can give pupils a taste of what the training covers via the Big First Aid Lesson next month.

First aid training co-ordinator in Bristol, George Tarte (pictured), said first aid is easy to learn, but it is being missed off of the school curriculum.

He said: "At St John Ambulance, we believe that first aid should be as much a part of growing up as learning to cross the road.

"It's so easy to learn and can have such an incredible impact on people's lives but, because it's not compulsory on the national curriculum, only a minority of schoolchildren would know what to do if one of their classmates or a member of their family became ill or injured."

The call to train more youngsters comes as new research shows that 97 per cent of the area's teachers think it's vital to teach essential first aid skills in school, but only 22 per cent of schools offer training.

Teachers also cite lack of staff training (41 per cent), time (33 per cent) and cost (26 per cent) as barriers to introducing lessons into the classroom.

George said: "We want as many schools as possible to sign up to the Big First Aid Lesson and take advantage of the funded training we're able to offer in the Bristol area, this year.

"Together, we can equip a generation with the skills to be the difference between a life lost and a life saved."

St John Ambulance is also looking for new first aid trainers to help meet demand for its training, and are asking the public to get in touch if they are interested.

New trainers don't have to be first aid experts, as full training is given, but teaching or training qualifications, such as PTTLLS (Preparing to Teach in the Lifelong Learning Sector) are required.

The Big First Aid Lesson is a free, interactive training webinar being streamed live into classrooms across the South West on Friday, June 20. St John's Ambulance are campaigning for all schools to take part.

The only equipment schools need is an internet connection and a screen for their pupils to watch in the classroom. It is designed to make it easier for teachers to get across messages about first aid to pupils.

Fewer than one in 10 people in the UK have been trained in first aid.

St John Ambulance said the way to combat these figures and save lives is to give all young people basic life-saving skills while they are still in school.

The group  runs 20,000 courses at over 240 training venues across the country every year.
