
South Sudan’s president has warned his country faces “one of worst famines ever” unless the current conflict comes to an end.

Last week, Salva Kiir postponed presidential elections due next year to give government and rebel forces more time to achieve reconciliation.

It is estimated about a million people have fled their homes in South Sudan since unrest erupted last December after the president alleged his deputy, Riek Machar, was plotting a coup, which the latter has denied.

The fighting has pitted forces loyal to Mr Kiir’s government against rebels allied to Mr Machar, comprised of a loose coalition of armed civilians mobilised mainly on the basis of ethnic affiliations and defectors from the army.

The United Nations has accused both sides of crimes against humanity, including mass killings and gang-rape, and threatened sanctions against those responsible.

In a new interview Mr Kiir has told how he believes rebel forces are to blame for the growing hunger crisis in his country.

The UN classifies a famine as when 20 per cent of the population has fewer than 2,100 kilocalories of food a day and more than three in ten children suffer acute malnutrition due to not having enough food or water.

Mr Kiir said: “This is not our making. It is a man-made disaster and that is why we want the war to stop, to allow humanitarian access to the country.

Mr Kiir and Mr Machar signed a peace deal in Ethiopia on 9 May but accused each other of breaking the ceasefire shortly after it was meant to come into effect.

He denied claims he had postponed the elections in order to ensure he stayed in power.

Instead, he claimed, US secretary of state John Kerry had asked him to postpone the vote to try to find an end to the conflict, which has left thousands of civilians dead.

The unrest has assumed ethnic overtones, with Mr Machar relying heavily on fighters from his Nuer ethnic group and Mr Kiir on those from his Dinka community.

In addition to a looming famine, South Sudan is facing a cholera outbreak, according to international aid agency Oxfam.

The UN says hundreds of non-Nuers were killed in Bentiu last month when rebel forces captured the town.

Yesterday, peace talks between the rival groups were postponed until 29 May, amid continued disagreements over the presence of foreign troops and rebels, government officials have said.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
