
Frustrated traders had continually bemoaned Daniel Booy and were disappointed in April when he was handed 12 months' drug treatment, rather than a jail term.

But true to form within a fortnight the drug addict was up to his old tricks, stealing a rucksack from a disabled child's wheelchair as well as laptop computer.

Now Booy – who had been nicknamed 'Klingon' by the traders because he latched onto the harbourside for his offending – has been jailed for 15 months after he admitted two counts of theft.

Judge Geoffrey Mercer QC  told the 34-year-old of Chesterfield Road, St Paul's: "Drugs have been a problem in your life for a long time. That's obvious. You burgle and you steal to fund that habit.

"Over the years you've done that many times and received prison sentences. I was persuaded on April 16 this year was a time to address your problems and you were able to do so.

"It's gone very wrong, very quickly and these were mean, further offences of dishonesty."

Robert Reid, prosecuting, said Booy helped himself to a rucksack on a disabled child's wheelchair, when youngsters were enjoying themselves at the interactive museum in Anchor Road – seven says after being given the chance of drug treatment.

The rucksack belonged to special needs teacher Katalin Seress, and contained ID cards and bank cards.

Booy was identified as the culprit via CCTV, the court heard.

Seven days later he stole a laptop computer belonging to musician Sam Garrano, from Hamilton House in Stokes Croft, Mr Reid said.

The court heard Booy had a £40 a day methadone and cocaine habit.

Dianne Heys, defending, said her client appreciated the opportunity the judge previously afforded him. She said Booy wanted to get clean of drugs and live with family in Cheltenham.

Last month the court heard Booy targeted a visually-impaired woman after patting her guide dog and told police "I didn't know she was blind".

Booy, a drug addict since 15, stole the woman's purse as part of a pilfering spate around the city centre.

But his luck ran out when he walked into the No.1 Harbourside bar where manager Ben McGhee chased him and tackled him to the ground after Booy had tried to flee.

Booy pleaded guilty to three walk-in burglaries and two thefts in March and Judge Mercer QC had imposed an 18-month community order, with 12 months of drug treatment and 18 months' supervision but warned him if he continued to offend he would be sent to jail.

On Friday the judge kept his promise.

As one of his many victims, it gives me no satisfaction to see his has kept to  his true form. The law is there to protect the innocent  the sad thing is that the humans that interpret the law are stupid, including the Judge in this case.  I got no compensation for the £127 Booy stole from me, not will anyone else - he has 3 meals a day a safe bed along with 7 1/2 months of drug treatment all for free, and of course unless the Police have told the DWP that Booy is in jail - he will still get all of his benefits that he is entitled too, in this crazy world of handouts to every one that has never earned entitlement. No wonder all the E.U. passport holders are queuing up in Calais to come here.

theres no hope for his future ,incinerate him an power the national grid.
