
SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s president said Monday that she will push to disband the coast guard in the wake of a ferry disaster last month that left more than 300 people dead or missing, calling its rescue operations after the disaster a failure.

The coast guard has been under growing public criticism of its alleged poor search-and-rescue work after the ferry Sewol sank on April 16. Most of the victims were students from a high school near Seoul who were traveling to the southern tourist island of Jeju.

“The coast guard’s rescue operations were virtually a failure,” President Geun-hye Park said in a nationally televised speech.

She said she will push for legislation that would transfer the coast guard’s responsibilities to the National Police Agency and a new government body she plans to establish.

Park also again apologized for the government’s handling of the sinking, one of the deadliest disasters in decades in South Korea. “The final responsibility for not properly dealing with this incident is placed on me,” she said. Park has apologized for the incident at least three times.

About one month after the sinking, 286 bodies have been retrieved and 18 people are still missing. About 172 people, including 22 of the ship’s 29 crew members, survived.

Prosecutors last week indicted the ferry’s 15 crew members who were tasked with navigating the ship, four on homicide charges.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
