
week.

learn from.

more.

program, Respecting Choices, back in 1993.

adopted it.

The program has had a big impact here in La Crosse,

and now, it's catching on across oceans.

accents and ideas, representing six European countries.

advance care planning program, Respecting Choices.

and their families.

they end up in a hospital room.

If you do good planning and you know what they want,

should they have a stroke and that stroke occurs,

goals without question.

are hoping to emulate back home.

care.

will help their relatives feel better afterwards.

to Slovania.

started right here in a little corner of the Midwest,

across the entire continent of Europe.

In LAX, LL, N8.

done in advance care planning.

week to begin the work.

program has received national recognition.

Hospitals in Australia have also adopted the program.

One local hospital is gaining global attention this week with a program that other countries are hoping to learn from.

Gundersen Health System launched its end of life care program, Respecting Choices, back in 1993. Since then, hospitals across the country have adopted it.

"It can help patients do good planning and improve the outcome for those patients and their families," said Bud Hammes, Respecting Choices director. "[With planning,] we provide the right care to the patient according to their values and goals, and the family doesn't suffer as much with the enormous decisions, because they're guided by what their loved one wanted."

Respecting Choices has had a big impact here in La Crosse - more than 90 percent of the city's residents die with some sort of plan in place, according to Gundersen officials. Now, it's catching on across oceans.

A group of people representing six European countries - the United Kingdom, Amsterdam, Belgium, Denmark, Italy and Slovania - are at Gundersen this week to learn the ins and outs of Respecting Choices. They're hoping to implement it in their own countries as part of an $8.5 million study on end-of-life patient care - the biggest of its kind in advance care research.

"We're mostly attracted by the fact that it's helping people feel better while they're dying, and it also will help their relatives feel better afterwards," said Ida Korfage, one of the European trainees. "While it is a difficult issue to discuss, [Gundersen] found a way to discuss it respectfully, and it's really impressive."

European representatives training at Gundersen this week will launch the study in six countries involving more than a thousand patients in advanced staged of cancer. The ultimate goal is to someday implement this program, started right here in a little corner of the Midwest, across the entire continent of Europe.

Copyright 2014 by WKBT News8000 . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. Due to a technical change, all comments posted before February 26, 2014 no longer appear on News8000.com. Comments posted after February 26 are not impacted.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
