
WINDHOEK- About fifty Windhoek residents on Friday gathered at Zoo Park in the capital to demonstrate against the kidnapping last month of over 200 schoolgirls by Boko Haram insurgents in Nigeria.

“Bring Back our girls. Bring Back our girls, What have they done? What have they done?” sang the group.

The demonstrators joined the growing global #BringBackOurGirls movement, which aims to put pressure on the Nigerian government to find the missing schoolgirls and hand them to their families. The protesters bore placards and chanted solidarity songs. Some placrds read, “Bring back our girls’’, “Release the girls now’’, “We want action now’’.

Tanyaradzwa Daringo, of Liberty Namibia, who read the petition on behalf of the group, said in times of grief it is easy to believe that one is alone, and it’s even easier to assume that others are not capable of fully understanding what you are going through.

She added that a threat to any nation is a threat to the entire world and urged Namibian leaders to get involved.

“We need to keep this issue alive in our local media – newspapers, blogs, TV, radio, everywhere. Continue to stage solidarity marches. Keep the fire burning online and offline. Because again, if it affects one of us, it affects all of us,” she added.

“Are our borders secure? What are they doing to prevent insurgency? Are there jobs and prospects for young people?” she asked.

Last week the Swapo Party Women’s Council (SPWC) issued a strong solidarity message for the 200 girls and in the same breath urged the Islamist militants to return them alive. The SPWC added that the girls have the fundamental human right to be educated and the inalienable right to be girls.

Since 2009 Boko Haram, whose name translates “Western education is sin”, has increasingly attacked schools, churches and government installations causing unprecedented carnage in Nigeria.

“The insurgents are on the move within the forest, which is vast and this hampers the whole process. The government has been careful bacause it is not a matter of fighting the insurgents but the aim is to recover the girls alive. Therefore, the government is very careful not to take full military action that could lead to the insurgents using the girls as a shield,” said Olorunfemi.

please boko haram bring back our girl and just come take The Hitman who is mistreating the wife.

the Nigerien government and the american government supports and sponsored boko haram…you people are wasting your time…with this bring back our girls story…those Americans and Nigerians knows were those girls are,,,because they are the ones created boko haram.

Send troops to help in the search. Gathering and demostrating wont bring the children. Nonsense.

Boko Haram… Plz Namibia don’t scratch where it does’nt itch!

Boko Haram… Plz Namibia don’t scratch where it does’nt itch!

Islamic insurgencies act of terrorism will not only end in nigeria, remember they are also now instigating political upheaval and instability in Mali, central african republic,Tunisia,Algeria, Chad,Egypt, Libya, uganda, Somalia and Kenya. If you look at the countries i have mentioned starting from North,west,central,east and southern africa. That definately signify that the entire africa is in dilema as we receive threats from the alquaeda linked islamist militant from the Maghreb world. Namibians we must also join hands with other to denounce the violations of human rights. We are also in the agenda to establish a united state of africa,why should we neglect our sisters/girls who were abductf? Remember last year african states came together at a summit in Adisababa in Ethiopia from 22 to 28th january under the theme”AFRICANISM and AFRICAN RENAISSANCE”,And such a theme suggests on how africa should address the challenges of africa. And this is one of the challenge and we must join others in this regard.

Islamic insurgencies act of terrorism will not only end in nigeria, remember they are also now instigating political upheaval and instability in Mali, central african republic,Tunisia,Algeria, Chad,Egypt, Libya, uganda, Somalia and Kenya. If you look at the countries i have mentioned starting from North,west,central,east and southern africa. That definately signify that the entire africa is in dilema as we receive threats from the alquaeda linked islamist militant from the Maghreb world. Namibians we must also join hands with other to denounce the violations of human rights. We are also in the agenda to establish a united state of africa,why should we neglect our sisters/girls who were abductf? Remember last year african states came together at a summit in Adisababa in Ethiopia from 22 to 28th january under the theme”AFRICANISM and AFRICAN RENAISSANCE”,And such a theme suggests on how africa should address the challenges of africa. And this is one of the challenge and we must join others in this regard.

One namibian one africa mean today is nigeria tomorow is namibia! Will we need assistence and support from outside? Then think b4 post.

no boko haram only targeting their own people,,not Namibia,,this thing of them abducting people its an old story..unless you don’t know anything about boko haram.

Comments are closed.
