
The quality of life in Prince George’s County is dramatically improving, according to a report released last week by the Greater Prince George’s Business Roundtable, a nonprofit made up of CEOs who advocate for businesses in the county. The report found that crime in the county is down, sales taxes are up, more teachers are qualified and more students are reading at advanced levels.

“What this document has and will always do is to break down rhetoric and stereotypes and replace it with facts and information, so that county residents and our elected officials can see where the county is doing well,” said M.H. Jim Estepp, president and CEO of the Greater Prince George’s Business Roundtable, which was created 10 years ago to focus on public policy issues in the county.

According to the report, which measures indicators in areas including  the county’s economy, education, public safety, health, transportation and parks and recreation, the county has made significant strides. The report, which relies largely on government sources and data, compares indicators in Prince George’s with other counties in the Washington region.

In 2012, Prince George’s collected $481 million in sales taxes compared with $523 million collected in sales taxes that same year in Montgomery and $331 million in Baltimore City. Commercial construction starts increased in Prince George’s in 2010, with 49 projects at a value of $784 million, compared with 26 projects in 2009. And the county’s unemployment rate fell to 6.8 percent, compared with a high of 7.7 percent in 2010. According to the report, median household income in Prince George’s rose to $70,114 compared with $63,005 in 2005.

In April, County Executive Rushern Baker III  said in his State of the County speech to county business owners that the county has made significant progress since he took office in 2010.

According to the Business Roundtable report, several indicators measuring the quality of education have improved. The number of teachers designated  “highly qualified,”  a term defined by the No Child Left Behind law, has increased since 2005, with 89 percent of teachers in the county receiving that title in core subjects, including English, foreign language, mathematics, reading and language arts. The percentage of seventh-graders reading at a proficient or advanced level rose to 77.1 percent in 2013 compared with 51.9 percent in 2005. Also, the percentage of seventh-graders scoring at proficient or advanced levels in math has risen from 39.9 percent in 2005 to 57.2 percent in 2013, according to the report. But the report notes that the county’s drop-out rate has risen from 3.57 in 2005 to 7.38 percent in 2012.

Last month, The Washington Post reported that the number of students attending Prince George’s schools had risen , with almost 2,000 more students enrolling in the school system than last year.

The county’s reports about  violent crime — including homicides, forcible rapes, robberies, car thefts and burglary  — have dropped significantly, the report found.

In 2005, the county reported 151 homicides. Last year, that figure had fallen to 56.

DeNeen L. Brown is an award-winning staff writer at The Washington Post who has covered night police, education, courts, politics and culture.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
