
University of North Dakota President Robert Kelley, lower right, addresses the long standing issue of racism on campus and recent racist act at an off-campus event earlier this month in Grand Forks during Monday's gathering of state tribal leaders and school and university system leaders at the state Capitol.

University System officials and tribal leaders gathered to discuss diversity Monday in an effort to prevent racist incidents on college campuses.

The meeting at the state Capitol came after several young people were photographed in Grand Forks this month wearing T-shirts with offensive Native American imagery. The shirts pictured a caricature of the University of North Dakota’s former Indian head logo drinking out of a beer bong with the words “Siouxper drunk” underneath.

Interim University System Chancellor Larry Skogen called the incident embarrassing and said he was “livid” when he learned of it last week in media reports.

The T-shirts were displayed at the annual Springfest, an off-campus event not sponsored by UND.

UND officials began an investigation to determine whether students were in the photos. UND President Robert Kelley declined to go into specifics of the investigation at Monday’s meeting, citing federal laws protecting student privacy.

Approximately 100 students staged a campus march last Friday in protest and issued a series of demands to Kelley. They included mandating sensitivity training to incoming freshmen and choosing a new college nickname.

Another demand was to bar people from wearing clothing on campus that shows the university’s now-retired logo and nickname, the Fighting Sioux.

In response, Skogen said he plans on restarting a group called the NDUS Diversity Council. The council’s responsibility is to ensure that diversity policies are being implemented on campuses across the state. Skogen said the council was started several years ago but eventually fizzled out.

State Board of Higher Education President Kirsten Diederich asked that the North Dakota University System legal staff draw up language for a res3olution that formally declares the Fighting Sioux nickname and logo as being harmful. The board may see a first draft of the resolution as early as its next meeting May 29 in Tioga.

Native American leaders in attendance agreed that diversity training should be implemented.

Standing Rock Chairman Dave Archambault said any UND students identified as being in the pictures should be expelled.

Spirit Lake tribal member Erich Longie said the people who created the T-shirts were way out of bounds and should be punished. He said it should be treated simply as a student issue.

“Forget everything else,” Longie said.

Longie said educating people can help mitigate problems, as shown by the years-long struggle over the Fighting Sioux logo and nickname, which was finally retired following a June 2012 vote.

“Once they were educated they did the right thing,” Longie said.

Another issue touched on at Monday’s meeting is a proposal sponsored by Rep. Scott Louser, R-Minot.

The 2012 vote retiring the Fighting Sioux nickname barred UND and the Board of Higher Education from implementing a new logo or nickname before Jan. 1, 2015.

Louser said the intent of his bill is “to have no nickname and no logo” for an additional two years beyond the current moratorium.

Native American leaders at Monday’s meeting urged Louser to not push the bill next year. Officials said it would reopen wounds from the fight over the logo and nickname.

“The Fighting Sioux has been one of those dividing lines between us,” Spirit Lake Chairman Leander McDonald said.

UND graduate student Robert Rainbow said the university should have adopted a new logo immediately after retiring the old one because it would have put the issue to bed long ago.

Rainbow also questioned the public mourning for the loss of the nickname. He said typically people “mourn for a relative,” not for the loss of a logo.

Copyright 2014 Bismarck Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The budget adds 23 new workers and struggles to keep competitive with private sector wages. Sales tax revenue has flat-lined.

Officials with several North Dakota agricultural groups gathered for a roundtable discussion to provide input to Michael Scuse.

The Bismarck-Burleigh Combined Communications Center User Group wants to merge its dispatcher system with Morton County.

North Dakota voters will have the choice in November whether or not to amend the state pharmacy ownership law.

The search committee moved to conduct background checks and meet Sept. 2 to review the results before forwarding the list to the full board.

Username & Password Required!
