
Yannis Behrakis / ReutersA pro-Russian separatist in a balaclava mans a fortified frontline rebel position Monday on the outskirts of Semenivka, a village in eastern Ukraine.

President Vladimir Putin ordered the Defense Ministry to withdraw troops from Russia's border with Ukraine on Monday in what analysts said was a sign of the Kremlin's willingness to deescalate tensions with Kiev and the West, despite ongoing clashes in eastern Ukraine.

While Putin's statement was greeted with skepticism by some observers, who pointed out it was the third time Russia had announced its intention to withdraw troops from its border with Ukraine, the order was Putin's most concrete statement on the issue, and both independent and pro-Kremlin analysts agreed that it was likely a case of third time lucky.

The statement released on the Kremlin's website Monday said that troops deployed at military grounds in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions — which all border Ukraine — have been ordered to retreat to their usual garrisons. Earlier this month, Putin claimed that troops were being withdrawn from the region and in March, the Kremlin announced a partial withdrawal of its soldiers.

"We have to understand that decisions like these are taken sequentially," said Igor Korotchenko, chairman of the Public Council of the Defense Ministry. "When the president announced earlier that troops were being withdrawn, you cannot expect troops to vanish overnight. This latest announcement confirms that the troops will be fully withdrawn."

The U.S. and NATO last week contradicted Russia's previous claims about withdrawing its troops from the border region with Ukraine.

The U.S. government published commercial satellite images that it said demonstrated Russia had not withdrawn its troops from the region. One of the images, dated May 9, showed what appear to be Russian helicopters in Belgorod. Another image from Rostov, located 75 kilometers from the Ukrainian border, appeared to show Russian armored vehicles.

NATO also claimed that Russia had 40,000 "high-readiness troops" massed at its border with Ukraine. NATO secretary general Anders Fogh Rasmussen said at a news conference Monday that he could not confirm that Russian troops were now being withdrawn.

The Kremlin's latest statement, which did not provide a timeline for the withdrawal of troops or specify what proportion of them would be pulled, said that "President Vladimir Putin welcomes the first contacts between Kiev and supporters of the federalization [of Ukraine]" to establish direct dialogue with the parties involved in the crisis.

Igor Bunin, director of the Moscow-based Center for Political Technologies, an independent think tank, said that the Kremlin's latest announcement was a positive sign for the deescalation of tensions in Ukraine.

"We are talking about completely removing the troops from the area," Bunin said. "This decision will move them far away, not just a few kilometers away as we saw before. This is a significant step in easing tensions."

Pro-Kremlin observers have also noted that Putin's latest announcement could deflate the information wars on the civil conflict in Ukraine.

"By ordering the withdrawal of troops, Putin is depriving certain political circles of an opportunity to berate Russia," Vladimir Anokhin, vice president of the Russian Academy of Geopolitical Problems, told The Moscow Times. "The West should applaud this wise decision because it will contribute to appeasing tensions."

The Kremlin's announcement followed Putin's expression of support for the OSCE's roadmap for mitigating the conflict in Ukraine. The plan, devised by the organization's Swiss chairmanship earlier this month, focuses on deescalating tensions in Ukraine and encouraging talks on the decentralization of power in the country.

Despite international endorsement for the roadmap, violence continued in eastern Ukraine on Monday. One soldier was killed and three wounded in the city of Slovyansk when pro-Russian rebels opened fire on an army checkpoint, Ukraine's Defense Ministry said.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
