
There has been mounting opposition to the clamour for tenure elongation for President Goodluck Jonathan, the state governors and other elected officials in government.

The rejection of the call is expected to feature strongly today as the delegates of the National Conference commence debate on the outcome of the committees’ work, just as there is a sharp division over the quest for state creation.

The plan to extend the tenure of the elected officials by 18 months had been shot down by both the northern delegates in the conference and the Conference for Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) .

A conference delegate from Akwa Ibom State, Okon Osung, had at the weekend argued for an 18-month tenure elongation because of the security situation in the country that might necessitate the cancellation of the 2015 general election.

Addressing a news conference yesterday, Osung said: “At this crucial juncture in our national history, a presidential or National Assembly declaration of a politico-administrative moratorium or cooling-off period before the conduct of the third transitional elections scheduled for February 2015 has become an imperative necessity.

“This calls for the postponement or deferment of the scheduled 2015 elections by at least 18 months, while retaining all the democratic institutions at all levels of governance and across the entire spectrum of the country’s political divide, without any bias to the statutory termination dates of such democratic institutions is necessary.

“A second plausible argument in support of the proposed postponement of election is the ardent need to stave off the phenomenon of military intervention now that Nigeria seems to be experiencing gradual institutionalisation of democratic processes, given the background that the country has already had two previous successful civilian-to-civilian transitional elections (in 2003 and 2007).

But conference delegates, who spoke to THISDAY on the proposed tenure elongation plot, described the move as not only unconstitutional and absurd, but also capable of sending the wrong signal on the whole essence of the conference.

A former Political Adviser to the late Head of State, General Sani Abacha, on Legal Affairs, Prof. Awwal Yadudu, said those contemplating such elongation should have considered the negative implications the move would have on the entire conference.

He recalled that it was the third term plot by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that eventually led to the outright abandonment of the good recommendations of the 2005 conference.

Yadudu argued that: “Tenure elongation was never part of the national conference and therefore there is no need to input what was not part of the agenda of the conference into its outcome.

In the same vein, elder statesman, Tanko Yakassai, said it was not possible to have a tenure extension being part of the recommendations of the plenary session, as it was not discussed in whatsoever form during the committees’ sessions.

According to Yakassai, “Proponents of this tenure elongation ought to have noticed that it was this same plot that eventually killed the noble and novel recommendations of the 2005 conference.

“It is unconstitutional and Nigeria as a nation is not at war with outside country, as stipulated in the constitution. Yes, there is insurgency in the country, but it is not enough to cancel the 2015 general election.

So, to answer your question, Nigeria is not in a state of war to warrant the cancellation or postponement of the 2015 election for 18 months.

The group in a statement issued yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, asked delegates not to be swayed  by the unnecessary argument of  doctrine of necessity being put forward rather they to shoot down the request.

“It is our considered view that there is no cogent reasons for the invocation of the doctrine of necessity to elongate the tenure of the president and other elected officials less than 12 months to general elections, “ it said.

The CNPP challenged the chairman of the   National Conference, retired Justice Idris Kutigi, to nip the move in the bud, adding that it had the capacity of subverting the good intention of the national conference and indeed threaten the corporate existence of our dear country.

Aside the contentious issue of tenure elongation, another likely source of friction among delegates today would be on state creation which had already polarised southern delegates to the conference.

The demand for state creation failed to enjoy unanimous adoption by the southern delegates as    delegates from Oyo, Osun states and many others had voiced their opposition to it.

The two states delegates said they are opposed to the recommendation of Ijebu State from Ogun State, saying if any state is due for state creation in the South-west, it should be Oyo State, considering the population and the land mass of the state.

Addressing journalists at the National Judicial Institute (NJI) Abuja, at the weekend, Chief Adeniyi Akintola, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who spoke on behalf of some other delegates, accused leaders of Yoruba delegates to the conference of ‘sell out’, explaining that what was presented as common position of Southern Nigeria Delegates did not represent the interest of various states from the South-west.

Akintola, who described some of the southern delegates as those ‘who do not have community value in their states’ are misrepresenting the interest of Yoruba nation at the conference. He explained that the Southern delegates had not been meeting.

“We have not been meeting but this set of people have been having meetings with the people they call Southern Nigeria.

He stressed: “We are not part of this Southern Nigeria Delegates’ meeting nonsense. I have not never attended one, I will never attend, none of us from Oyo State, you will not find anybody of note of all the thirteen delegates representing various interest in this meeting,” Akintola said.

Also speaking, another delegate, Lanre Ogundipe, former President, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) described as “agents of state” those people that are misrepresenting the interest of Yorubas at the ongoing conference.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
