
WOLFEBORO, N.H., May 19 (UPI) -- The police commissioner in the upscale summer resort of Wolfeboro, N.H., caught referring to President Obama with a racial slur resigned Monday.

Bob Copeland quit a few days after more than 100 residents gathered for a community meeting, most of them calling for his resignation. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney , Wolfeboro's most prominent current summer visitor and the Republican who lost to Obama in 2012, had also called on Copeland to leave office.

Copeland, 82, who had served one full term on the police commission, was re-elected in March. But soon after, a resident of the town reported she had overheard him talking about Obama and using both a racial slur and an obscenity.

Joe Balboni Jr., the head of the police commission, told the Manchester Union-Leader Copeland had resigned. The commission oversees the Wolfeboro police department.

At last week's meeting, Copeland sat mostly silent, refusing to apologize. Some of his detractors said they would start an effort to recall him, something that would not be possible under New Hampshire law.

Scott Brown , the former U.S. senator from Massachusetts now running in New Hampshire, also said through a spokeswoman that Copeland should step down.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
