
Saudi health authorities reported Monday a new death from the MERS coronavirus, taking to 169 the overall number of fatalities from the disease in the world's worst-hit country, AFP reports. The health ministry said on its website that the latest person to fall victim to the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome was a 59-year-old man who died on Sunday in the western city of Taif.

It reported two new infections, one in Riyadh and the other in the commercial capital of Jeddah, raising the total number of MERS cases to 531.

Other nations including Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, the Netherlands, the United Arab Emirates and the United States have also recorded cases, mostly in people who had been to the desert kingdom.

MERS is considered a deadlier but less transmissible cousin of the SARS virus that appeared in Asia in 2003 and infected 8,273 people, nine percent of whom died.

Like SARS, it appears to cause a lung infection, with patients suffering coughing, breathing difficulties and a temperature. But MERS differs in that it also causes rapid kidney failure.

Two US healthcare employees are now sick after being exposed to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and has caused such an uproar that the World Health Organization (WHO) called for an emergency meeting in Geneva yesterday.

The US workers came in contact with the virus at a Florida hospital and started to show flu-like symptoms, raising worry over the ability of global health officials to manage the killer virus. During the WHO's meet up yesterday, it was to decide on whether the rising amount of confirmed cases, the majority of them being in Saudi Arabia, should be deemed as a "public health emergency of international concern."

Saudi Arabia has announced 13 more deaths from the MERS coronavirus, as the World Health Organisation prepared for an emergency meeting over worries about the spread of the disease.

The Middle East Respiratory System coronavirus has now killed 139 people and infected 480 in the kingdom since it first appeared in 2012, accounting for the bulk of cases registered across the globe.

In its most recent tally, issued at midday on Saturday, the Saudi health ministry said six people had died from the disease over the past 24 hours.

Lebanon has registered the first case of the deadly Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronavirus, but the person who contracted it was released after showing signs of recovery, the health ministry said Thursday, according to AFP.

The news came as Saudi Arabia, the country worst hit by the disease, announced four more deaths, bringing the toll to 121 since its first appearance there in September 2012.

"On Thursday afternoon, a patient who had been in hospital was diagnosed as being a carrier" of the virus, the ministry said, adding that the patient left the hospital after treatment "led to a significant improvement in his health."

All rights reserved.
