
The National Organization for Marriage screws up again in Oregon. Judges in Idaho and Arkansas rule that marriage bans violate the US Constitution. Following another round of hearings, rulings are due any day now in Virginia and Pennsylvania. And a new lawsuit in Alaska leaves just three states with an unchallenged marriage ban.

Let’s start with Virginia, where AFER’s attorneys were back in court last week to defend their previous victory. Earlier this year, a federal district court overturned Virginia’s marriage ban. That ruling was appealed, and now that oral arguments are done, we’ll hopefully have a ruling within the next few weeks. From there it’s on to the US Supreme Court.

It’s been a busy few days in Arkansas. First Judge Chris Piazza ruled that the state’s marriage ban is unconstitutional. That led to numerous gay couples getting married over the previous weekend. Then on Wednesday of last week the state Supreme Court briefly halted the weddings, due to some problematic wording in the decision. And then on Thursday Judge Piazza revised his order, and marriages resumed. He also rejected an attempt by the state to put the ruling on hold, and cited the irreparable harm caused by the marriage ban. So marriages are back on in Arkansas.

But they’re off, for now, in Idaho. Another federal judge ruled against that state’s marriage ban last week. Judge Candy W. Dale ruled that the state’s justification for the ban was “so attenuated that it is not rational,” and ordered marriage to begin on Friday. But before that could happen, the state appealed to the Ninth Circuit, which ruled that marriages had to wait until after an appeal.

The National Organization for Marriage had a big setback in Oregon this week. A judge has overturned that state’s marriage ban. Previously, NOM had attempted to intervene in that state’s marriage lawsuit, and they had a hearing on Wednesday. But Judge Michael McShane ruled that their request came too late, and now they won’t be allowed to participate. NOM also suggested that McShane was unqualified to rule in the case, because he is gay. He rejected that argument as well.

Pennsylvania also saw oral arguments last week. There are currently five lawsuits in that state, and both sides have requested an expedited ruling.

And there’s a new lawsuit in Alaska. Five couples have sued the state for recognition. Now the only states with no legal challenge to a marriage ban are North Dakota or Montana. A lawsuit is currently in the planning stages but not yet filed in South Dakota.

There’s also a new lawsuit in Florida. Gildas Dousset is a student at Florida Atlantic University, married to a longtime Florida resident. Dousset applied for spousal financial assistance, but was turned down because the state didn’t recognize their Massachusetts marriage license. He’s now suing the state for recognition.

And finally this week, a new study from the Williams Institute shows that marriage equality would generate $39 billion for Indiana over the next three years. Indiana organizers recently defeated an attempt to add a marriage ban to the state constitution. The state still has a statutory marriage ban, but there are currently five separate lawsuits challenging it.

1.

"NOM also suggested that McShane was unqualified to rule in the case, because he is gay. He rejected that argument as well."

NOM is so good at making friends.

2.

Hey, Matt, just fyi–small typo in the last paragraph; should say $39 million (not billion).

3.

"Marriages are back on in Arkansas"

4.

Saying a judge can't rule on gay related cases because he's gay is just a ludicrous as saying a divorced judge can't rule on divorce cases or an adopted judge can't rule on adoption cases.  It's just a STUPID argument!

5.

7.

"But before that could happen, the state appealed to the Ninth Circuit, which ruled that marriages had to wait until after an appeal."

WRONG. Not yet. The Ninth only issued a temporary stay while it makes its decision. Briefing is complete on the emergency stay request, so a ruling could come down any day now.

8.

If being gay was a reason to disqualify a judge, so then would being straight.  Good grief.

9.

10.

I believe "marriages are back on in Arkansas" is wrong. (??)  Unless it means the old 'normal' kind.

11.

I could be wrong, but I thought that about 460 same-sex couples were married legally in Arkansas, and then the revised ruling was put on hold.

12.

The text is wrong, but the video is correct.

13.

I am endlessly amused by the psychotic disconnect in their argument: "not only is the judge biased and incompetent, we didn't get to present our arguments to him!"

It's a very lawyerly answer:  I don't have a dog, he doesn't bite, and he definitely didn't bite you.

14.

Maybe Matt should start releasing these videos as soon as they're recorded, due to how often things have changed between recording and releasing them.

15.

It would be nice to get consistent and accurate information.

16.

If a judge is unqualified to rule due to his God-given gayness, then a judge would be unqualified to rule due to his decision to choose the heterosexual lifestyle.  After all, by the same tortured logic, a heterosexual would be biased in favor of opposite marriage.

17.

ALL of the arguments from the anti-equality faction are LUDICROUS.  The only people who believe the nonsense being spewed by religionist hypocrites are brainwashed sheep.

18.

Thank you.  i paused the video when Matt said this and was going to ask you, but you're on it!

19.

Yah, kind of important.

Matches their track record for winning. They had a radio interview with Eastman in which the host noted that NOM has had rather a long losing streak, then proceeded to rattle off all of their recent losses – quite a long list. Eastman's response – 'well, we won in Utah!'

Which they didn't. Telling that they are now spinning a temporary stay after a significant loss as some kind of a victory.

21.

Today's Portland Press Herald reports that the Maine Election Commission has the list of donors and will decide what to do with it after its final May 28 vote (to assess a penalty of 50,000 dollars ). One of the donors is from Maine (50,000) another gave up to 2.5 million but we are not told if the donor is from Maine. In any event, it looks like there may not have been a boatload of small donors to keep NOM afloat.

22.

And….be sure to check out the poll attached to the article.

24.

Ruling to come out of PA today!

25.

Exactly. The text is either wrong or very outdated! Maybe EoT team can edit it.

26.

I hope EoT creates a thread about this and/or does a followup as I think it is important for people to know WHO is funding NOM and WHO  gave that 2.5 million dollar donation.

27.

The Oregon Family Council released a strongly worded statement Monday saying the state colluded with gay-rights groups to sidestep the will of voters, and a judge allowed it.

"While tonight’s newscast will feature tearful couples at staged PR activities in courthouses across the state, the real tears should be for the next generation as we witness our constitutional republic sink into a banana republic," spokeswoman Teresa Harke said.

So the Pennsylvania decision is being announced this afternoon? Wow, what a month this has been for ME.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

90% yes with 1975 votes.

35.

36.

This is your last feeding troll.  Please go spread your homophobia to a zombie.

Chief US District Judge James Ware said that requiring a gay judge to recuse himself from a case about gay marriage would have set a dangerous precedent.

“The fact that a federal judge shares a fundamental characteristic with a litigant, or shares membership in a large association such as a religion, has been categorically rejected by federal courts as a sole basis for requiring a judge to recuse her or himself,” wrote Judge Ware.

37.

Judge Walker in the Prop 8 case was also gay and the anti-gays wanted him disqualified. It didn't work.

38.

I bet they will make up a story casting themselves as the victims of some fictitious form of discrimination or intimidation so they cancel the "rally." Just like how they claimed people were too intimidated to be witnesses in their Oregon intervention embarrassment.

No, nom, people aren't too intimidated to support your lies, they finally see through your deceit and will no longer support your waste of their money.  I'm sure you'll soon be moving to Russia, Uganda and other evil places where you'll fit right in and can bilk them for as long as possible.

39.

I grew up in Oregon; outside of two cities (Portland and Eugene), you may as well call the place Redneckistan.  Remember, this is where Scott Lively cut his teeth on the horrific, homophobic crap he's exported to Africa.

Equality on Trial's Case Timeline is the go-to place to find thorough, up-to-date information on the myriad of marriage equality lawsuits taking place across the US.

Got suggestions? Questions? Notice bugs? Email us here .

Want to submit a guest piece for publication on Equality On Trial? Submit your piece with your byline, title and any appropriate links (and HTML if possible) to: equalityontrial [at] couragecampaign [dot] org.

Get even more LGBT equality courtroom news on Facebook and Twitter!

We've got an explanation of each phase of the trial, dates, and what's next for laypeople. You can find it here .
