
Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 12:00 a.m.

TO EASE up the road congestion in Cagayan de Oro City, the Roads and Traffic Administration (RTA) conducted the test run of the new traffic lights last week, but it received complaints from motorists and passengers who claimed the trial run brought chaos instead.

On Friday morning, August 22, vehicles from Macanhan, Upper Balulang, and those passing by Vamenta Boulevard in Barangay Carmen and at the circumferential road, Rodelsa Circle, in Barangay Macasandig were in long queues.

FOLLOWING the waves of complaints haunting the City Government-run hospital in Cagayan de Oro in the past, officials at the J.R. Borja General Hospital (JRBGH) have assured the public of better and satisfactory service.

Dr. Ramon Nery, JRBGH executive officer, said the city's primary health facility has been re-living up to its original ideals to serve the general public, especially the poor population, of quality service.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:58 p.m.

CAGAYAN de Oro-based photojournalists and photographers have expressed their opposition to the approval, on second reading, of House Bill 4807 at the House of Representatives Thursday last week, August 21.

The bill, also known as Protection Against Personal Intrusion Act, is a substitute to House Bill 3548, Right to Privacy, will penalize photographers and videographers that will intrude people’s privacy through the use of high-end telephoto lenses and microphones for profit or commercial purposes.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:58 p.m.

NOW that the final draft of the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL) is in the hands of President Benigno Aquino III, Moros in Mindanao, aside from being hopeful, have put a constant reminder for Congress to "go down" to the grass root communities and take a glimpse of how Muslims perceive this bill.

Former Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (Armm) assemblywoman Samira Gutoc-Tomawis said, "It's never too late" to reach out to the people of the Bangsamoro and personally ask them of how they feel about the crafted legislation.

Sunday, August 24, 2014 - 11:54 p.m.

HOURS after the military dismissed the possibility that the New People’s Army (NPA) could have executed Opol Councilor Cecilio Abuhan, the communist guerillas owned up Abuhan’s slay for his alleged anti-people and anti-revolutionary activities in his area.

Sunday, August 24, 2014 - 11:54 p.m.

BEATRICE Alvarez Pohl of Barangay Carmen was crowned Miss Cagayan de 2014 on Saturday night.

“It’s very overwhelming. When my name was called, it’s like a mix of everything. Happiness, relief, I felt funny, I wanted to cry and laugh. It's like a ball of emotions, I can’t even describe it,” Pohl said, recalling the moment during the coronation night.

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 12:24 a.m.

THE military has brushed aside suspicion that the New People’s Army (NPA) insurgents were the ones responsible for killing a councilor of Opol, Misamis Oriental the other day, instead of putting the blame on them.

The Philippine Army has confirmed to Sun.Star Cagayan de Oro Friday that the death of the municipal councilor was not the handiwork of the NPA.

TO COUNTER another possible outbreak of measles and polio, the Department of Health (DOH) in Northern Mindanao will distribute vaccines to children who are the prime target of its month-long mass immunization in September.

The nationwide vaccination campaign is hoped to decelerate spread of the virus causing polio and eliminate measles among adults.

IN STRENGTHENING good governance and enhancing the economic prosperity of the people, the local government unit (LGU) and the private sector have collaborated to spur investment in Cagayan de Oro City.

A memorandum of agreement (MOA) signed recently by the City Government of Cagayan de Oro, the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) in Misamis Oriental and the Promote CdO Foundation, a non-stock, non-profit private organization, would seek to implement effective promotional strategies to attract investors into the city.

A MAN will possibly face arson after witnesses alleged that he set a house on fire, which burned down two other dwellings, leaving some P500,000 worth of damages in properties in Barangay Carmen Thursday night.

Police investigators said that prior to the incident, the 26-year-old suspect, Rommel Christian Paras of Barangay Bulua, had asked for a lighter and threatened to burn down his live-in partner's residence in a verbal rift before the incident happened at Gumamela-Caimito Streets in Carmen around 11:30 p.m. Thursday.

“Dili dapat i-prioritize kay wala pa man nakasulod sa atong nasud. (It should not be prioritized because it has not entered the country yet),” DOH-Northern Mindanao information officer Emiliano Galban Jr. said over the phone Thursday.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 10:15 p.m.

WITH the plans of extending the term of President Benigno Aquino III by his political allies, civil society groups vowed to oppose any move to keep him in power after 2016.

“We, from the farmer sector, are strongly opposing it as we have not felt any changes in this country and from his promises since he started his term -- how much more if he will extend?” Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas-Northern Mindanao secretary general Richard Colao said.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 10:07 p.m.

“DEPRESSING news” was how an editor of a website that posts job hiring within Northern Mindanao area described the recent incident that linked said site to an alleged online scam.

“It is regretful and deplorable that my website has been misused in this manner,” said Ninah, who requested that her full name not be revealed for security reasons, the editor and senior writer of misorjobs.com (MisOr Jobs).

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 02:37 a.m.

THE City Local Environment and Natural Resources Office (Clenro) said the illegal mining operations in the city are no longer owned and managed by foreign nationals.

The bad news: local entrepreneurs have taken over the mining industry.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 02:36 a.m.

HAVING beefed up with over a thousand law enforcers that will be visible throughout the city, security is set for next week's 1st Higalaay Kagay-an Festival 2014 in Cagayan de Oro to safeguard tourists, 'balikbayans' and residents in the city for its grandest celebration of the year.

Senior Superintendent Graciano Mijares, chief of the Cagayan de Oro Police Office (Cocpo), assured the public—domestic and foreign visitors and locals alike—that the feast would turn out "pleasant" and "peaceful."

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 02:36 a.m.

EVEN with the snarl-up of the motion for the reinvestigation on the case of Cagayan de Oro Water District’s (COWD) senior draftsman Emmanuel Mulawan Sr., his defense lawyer, Earl Hans Santos, is convinced his client has been falsely accused.

“I am a hundred percent convinced that Sir Manny (Mulawan) is just a victim of a frame-up. As to who, I personally do not know. What I do know is that the irregularity of the documents shown to us proves my client has just been [set up],” Santos told Sun*Star Cagayan de Oro by phone Wednesday.

IN LINE with the plans of amending the 1987 Constitution by the political allies of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III so he could stay in power beyond 2016, a lawmaker suggested an alternative: change the system from presidential to parliamentary.

“The party’s stand will always be for change in the country; what is better for the country and the laws that we pass can be for the betterment of the Filipino people,” the city’s second district Representative Rufus Rodriguez said.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 02:35 a.m.

DUE to an overused tire, a passenger jeepney rammed into a tree that brought all of its passengers and the driver to the hospital Wednesday morning in Barangay Kasinglot, Tagoloan town in Misamis Oriental.

A report from the Tagoloan municipal police station said 18 passengers were injured following a Jasaan liner jeepney with plate number KJV-331 drove into a mahogany tree. The driver was identified as Resbert Ronquillo.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 02:34 a.m.

GRIEVING family of a minor who was found dead in Barangay Poblacion 2, Villanueva town in Misamis Oriental Wednesday morning positively identified the victim.

Angeles identified his 15-year-old son Johnny (not his real name) already at a funeral parlor Wednesday around 3 p.m. after her neighbors informed her of the news.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 02:33 a.m.

A DRUG suspect was arrested in a buy-bust operation around 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Tagoloan plaza.

Saidamen Mansawe, 26, resident of Barangay Iponan, Cagayan de Oro, was arrested after an agent of the Tagoloan municipal police station tipped them off of Mansawe's visit to town to meet his clients.

FILIPINOS who are planning to seek greener pasture in Middle East countries should think twice before flying there, the Overseas Workers Welfare Administration-Northern Mindanao (Owwa-10) said Tuesday.

“I hope they could think of the stories of people who worked in the Middle East and met their [misfortune] who either came home in a cadaver or [alive but with bruises on their bodies],” Owwa-10 officer-in-charge Harry Borres said Monday.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 01:19 a.m.

CAGAYAN DE ORO first district Representative Rolando Uy remains unfazed amid the imminent charges that he will face and instead put the blame on the bogus non-government organization (NGO) which allegedly faked the more than 800 signatures of former and incumbent barangay officials and residents.

Uy said the Commission on Audit (COA) has to conduct an investigation on reports linking him to Kabuhayan at Kalusugang Alay sa Masa Foundation Inc. (KKAMFI), an NGO which implemented Uy's Livelihood Technology Kit project.

FOREIGNERS, who want to stay in the Philippines, whether as tourists or immigrants, will now be required of their biometrics.

Under the Comprehensive Alien Mapping Program or the Alien Registration Project created by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Bureau of Immigration (BI), interested immigrants and tourists, and registered aliens in the country will be required of their biometrics or fingerprints to monitor them easily.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 01:17 a.m.

AN EXUBERANT atmosphere in a village in a Misamis Oriental town which celebrated its 48th founding anniversary Monday turned tragic when more than a hundred residents ended in hospitals due to a suspected food poisoning.

As of Monday, around 130 victims from barangay San Vicente in Medina town have been confined at various government and private medical facilities in the eastern portions of the province after experiencing gastrointestinal disorder and persistent vomiting possibly caused by food poisoning.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 01:16 a.m.

AUTHORITIES in Iligan City are still probing further on the identities of the suspects involved in P3.5-million jewelry heist in the city 10 days ago.

Superintendent Gervacio Balmaceda Jr., Iligan City Police Office (ICPO) spokesperson, said they still have to conduct further investigations that may shed light on establishing the identities of the suspects.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 01:15 a.m.

THE Securities and Exchange Commission in the region (SEC-10) has been put under fire after the provincial board of Misamis Oriental found out that signatures on the documents passed by an energy firm in the province were not of the right persons.

Lawyer Renato Egypto, SEC-10 regional director, was questioned by board members and the vice governor of the province following signatures on the Article of Incorporation (AOI) used to register Pacerm-1 Energy Corporation to the SEC were signed by other signatories.

SEVENTEEN of the 800 overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) who have been repatriated due to the ongoing conflict in Libya are residents of Northern Mindanao.

The workers were sent home after the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) announced last July 20, 2014 alert level 4 in Libya after fighting that involved government troops and the militia who want to control key facilities in some parts of the country.

Tuesday, August 19, 2014 - 12:40 a.m.

AFTER weeks of being in the dark and unaware and confused on what to do on the killing of darts man Godwin Vergara, his wife Relanie finally found a refuge in the hands of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) to unlock the missing pieces that could lead to her husband's killer.

In a letter from a law office representing the Vergaras sent to the NBI last August 11, Relanie formally requested assistance from the bureau to conduct extensive investigation on Vergara’s death.

Tuesday, August 19, 2014 - 12:40 a.m.

TWO more victims have identified the suspect that the region’s Anti-Cybercrime Group (ACG-10) had arrested last week for allegedly committing an online fraud as the same person who reportedly swindled them, an ACG-10 official told this paper Monday.

Just last week, ACG-10 agents handcuffed Jaysone Delfin Fabre, 31, for allegedly scamming Deisi Jean Vale who applied to a job hiring posted on a website.

BECAUSE of unresolved issues such as the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) or “pork barrel” scam that figured lawmakers such as senators, government and non-government organizations (NGOs), a people’s initiative through its signature campaign dubbed as the Anti-Pork Barrel Movement (APBM) was launched here on Saturday, August 16.
