
ODESSA - Officials say many people played a part in 22-year-old Sean Lamb's murder last week. Now, officials are rounding them up one by one. Five people are behind bars after two more arrests were made this past weekend and two suspects are still on the run.

The latest arrests include 33-year-old Rudolfo Paredes and 39-year-old Raymond Hernandez Olguin, Jr. According to the arrest affidavit, one of the initial people arrested, Liz Hernandez, ratted out Olguin, who was in the booking area when she was being brought into the Ector County jail. Olguin had been arrested on May 15 under misdemeanor warrant charges before he was linked to Lamb's death.

DPS Troopers found Paredes Saturday near 42nd and Johnson and arrested him for evading arrest in a vehicle.

Officials said multiple people kidnapped Lamb from the 1600 block of North Dixie and beat him into the front seat of a blue Ford Expedition. Then, Olguin drove the vehicle to the alley at Neta Place where Lamb was found dead.

Paredes was in the back left seat, and Noe Garcia Galan was sitting in the back right seat, with a gun pointing at Lamb, who was reportedly shot in the seat in the head and back.

According to official documents, the suspects thought they were just going to assault Lamb and "scare him" for allegedly stealing some drugs and a Chevy Tahoe from the home of other arrested suspects - Liz Hernandez and her son Brian Hernandez - last Sunday.

"There are a lot of detectives that work around the clock. It has a lot of, it's not just one place where we're at. This is involving multiple locations and multiple people that we're looking for," LeSueur said.

Friday, which was three days after Lamb had been killed, and five days after he was accused of stealing the stash of drugs, officers found surveillance video of some of the suspects looking for Lamb and his accomplices. According to court documents, Hernandez thought the thieves would be at the Parkway Inn on East Highway 80 and rolled into the lot. The video, we're told, shows Parades' gray Ford Expedition (in which he was arrested the next day) among other vehicles with people for backup.

Officials also said that there's no evidence any of the suspects tried to stop the events that ultimately led to Lamb's death. All five individuals are facing capital murder charges, which is a Capital Felony. If convicted, that could mean life in prison or the death penalty.

If anyone has information that would help lead to an arrest, they are asked to call Odessa Crime Stoppers at 333-TIPS.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and KWES. All Rights Reserved.
