
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.

The email address you have entered is already in use.

Please re-enter the email address.

The decision by the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, to step down after his party’s poor showing in the national election has thrown the state’s politics into turmoil.

If the political dominoes keep falling, analysts say, it could possibly lead to early state elections in Bihar — and, most likely, significant gains for the Bharatiya Janata Party, which dominated India’s national election last week.

Mr. Kumar’s party, Janata Dal (United), won only two of Bihar’s 40 parliamentary seats. That’s a big decline from the 20 seats it won in the last general election, in 2009.

Mr. Kumar resigned on Saturday, taking “moral responsibility” for his party’s drubbing.

The first thing his resignation did was stir up dissent within the party itself. One faction wanted Mr. Kumar to reverse his decision and stay in office. Another faction was happy to see him go.

On Monday, JD (U) president Sharad Yadav made it clear that Mr. Kumar’s decision to resign wasn’t taken in haste. “The decision is in the party’s favor. It is a tough decision but final and right,” Mr. Yadav told television news channels Monday. He said the party would “soon take a decision” on naming a new chief minister for Bihar.

Last year, the JD (U) severed its ties with the BJP — ending a 17-year run in which two parties worked together. Mr. Kumar’s decision to end that BJP alliance is being perceived as a huge misstep. The BJP last week won 22 of Bihar’s 40 seats in the national Parliament.

Mr. Kumar has criticized the BJP’s prime-ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, as doing little to stop 2002 communal violence in the state of Gujarat that killed more than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims . Mr. Modi, Gujarat’s chief minister then and now, has long denied wrongdoing.

The BJP has stepped up its criticism of Mr. Kumar. “Political instability has been created in Bihar” by Mr. Kumar’s resignation, said Sushil Kumar Modi, BJP leader in Bihar, on Monday.

He also questioned whether the JD (U) has enough support in the state’s legislature to remain in power. The party should “check for the numbers,” he said.

The JD (U) has 115 of 243 seats in Bihar’s legislative assembly, along with support from four Congress party members, one Communist Party of India member, and three independents—getting them just past the halfway point of 121 seats. The BJP has 91 members in the state’s legislature.

The risk is that some of JD (U)’s supporters, sensing weakness, might switch allegiance. Prabhat P. Ghosh, director of the Asian Development Research Institute, a think-tank in Patna, said Mr. Kumar’s resignation actually makes that less likely, because he’s trying to be the fall guy. There is the possibility of “a sizeable drop-out” from the JD (U) to the BJP, he said–but it is a “crisis forestalled by Mr. Kumar,” who decided to call it quits.

Follow Vibhuti and India Real Time on Twitter @AgarwalVibhuti and  @WSJIndia .

India Real Time offers analysis and insights into the broad range of developments in business, markets, the economy, politics, culture, sports, and entertainment that take place every single day in the world’s largest democracy. Regular posts from Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones Newswires reporters around the country provide a unique take on the main stories in the news, shed light on what else mattered and why, and give global readers a snapshot of what Indians have been talking about all week. You can contact the editors at indiarealtime(at)wsj(dot)com .

Check out the main contributors to the blog and their bios here .

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
