
Pediatricians have a new prescription for schools: later start times for teens.

VICTORIA - Google Earth may soon extend it global gaze to some of the most remote First Nations territories in Canada.

"I've always wanted to do that!" This was the standard response from anyone who learned I was riding Via Rail's Canadian from Vancouver to Toronto this summer.

Anne Fomenoff of Castlegar, BC, is mother of Gloria Taylor (deceased lead plaintiff in lawsuit) during a press conference hosted by the BC Civil Liberties Association (BCCLA) in Vancouver, BC, May 19, 2014. Also in photo are Gloria's son Jason Taylor (left), Lee Carter (middle-right) and Hollis Johnson (far left). The civil liberties watchdog responsible for launching the death with dignity lawsuit announced the beginning of its journey to the Supreme Court of Canada.

The BC Civil Liberties Association has filed its written arguments at Canada’s highest court in a fight to make assisted suicide legal.

The high court will hear oral arguments in October in the appeal. Normally a Supreme Court of Canada decision is made about six months later.

The civil liberties group marked the filing last week of its arguments to allow physician-assisted death by sharing the personal stories of plaintiffs in a news conference on Monday.

“I strongly believe we are honouring my mother’s memory by asking Canada’s highest court to provide people like her the right to choose how and when to die,” said Lee Carter.

Carter and Hollis Johnson, a married couple, launched the original lawsuit at the B.C. Supreme Court in 2011 on behalf of Lee’s 89-year-old mother Kay Carter. She suffered from a degenerative spinal condition which confined her to a wheelchair, and she was unable to feed herself and suffered chronic pain.

In 2010, the family travelled with her to Switzerland so she could die with the help of a physician.

Lee Elayne Shapray, 67, who suffers from multiple sclerosis, said her biggest fear is being trapped inside her body.

She added that ending her life through self-starvation, by over medication or some other self-inflicted injury were her only options until the court rules the law is unconstitutional.

The Supreme Court of Canada decided in January to hear the appeal of a 2-1 B.C. Court of Appeal ruling that had struck down a 2012 B.C. Supreme Court decision. The 2012 ruling by Justice Lynn Smith found the existing law banning assited suicide to be unconstitutional. Smith’s ruling gave the federal government a year to rewrite the statute, but this was overturned by the Court of Appeal’s ruling.

The high court’s ruling will come about 20 years after its landmark 5-4 ruling upheld the law against assisted suicide in the case of B.C. woman Sue Rodriguez.

The federal Conservative government opposes assisted suicide, arguing it demeans the value of life and puts vulnerable people at risk of abuse.

Helping someone to die is a crime in Canada, punishable by up to 14 years in prison.

Dying with the help of a physician is already allowed in other jurisdictions around the world, including the Netherlands, Belgium, and five U.S. states. Both Washington and Oregon are in that group of five..

Anne Fomenoff of Castlegar, BC, is mother of Gloria Taylor (deceased lead plaintiff in lawsuit) during a press conference hosted by the BC Civil Liberties Association (BCCLA) in Vancouver, BC, May 19, 2014. Also in photo are Gloria's son Jason Taylor (left), Lee Carter (middle-right) and Hollis Johnson (far left). The civil liberties watchdog responsible for launching the death with dignity lawsuit announced the beginning of its journey to the Supreme Court of Canada.
