
The calendar of remaining Maryland Democratic gubernatorial debates has firmed up — including one next week in which the front-runner, Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown, does not plan to participate.

Attorney General Douglas F. Gansler (D) and Del. Heather R. Mizeur (D-Montgomery) have agreed to take part in a debate May 27 hosted by WBFF-TV, the Fox affiliate in Baltimore, that will focus on issues of particular importance to that region.

Brown does not plan to attend because the event falls outside of an agreement reached with the other campaigns to hold three debates in advance of the June 24 primary, said Brown campaign manager Justin Schall.

The other two campaigns say the agreement was for three televised debates — and that Brown is incorrectly including a radio debate as making good on that agreement.

WBFF said a spot will be held for Brown on the stage next week.

“We hope the lieutenant governor recognizes the importance of the Baltimore vote and takes this opportunity to show voters that he is willing to address the issues that impact them the most,” said FOX45 News Director Mike Tomko.

The Baltimore station plans to air the hourlong debate live at 8 p.m. It will be simulcast on NewsChannel 8 in the Washington area and streamed online. FOX45 anchor Jennifer Gilbert is set to moderate.

The three major Democratic candidates held their first televised debate this month at the University of Maryland at College Park.

All three have agreed to participate June 2 in another debate to be broadcast by Maryland Public Television with MPT personality Jeff Salkin serving as moderator.

On June 5, all three candidates are also expected to appear on WOLB-AM radio in Baltimore for an early morning debate moderated by talk show host Larry Young, a former state senator.

There are also plans for a televised face-off between the three lieutenant governor candidates on the morning of May 27, the same day Gansler and Mizeur are scheduled to meet in the evening. The running mates are set to be hosted by NewsChannel 8 in the Washington area.

John Wagner has covered Maryland government and politics for The Post since 2004.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
