
May 19, 2014 01:00 AM EDT May 18, 2014 11:17 PM EDT Bill would expand DNA sampling powers of police in R.I.

Bill would expand DNA sampling powers of police in R.I.

PROVIDENCE — The House Judiciary Committee has endorsed a bill that would expand Rhode Island law enforcement’s ability to take a DNA sample from a person who is arrested for a crime of violence and submit it to a federally administered database.

The bill, whose prime sponsor is Rep. Brian Patrick Kennedy, D-Hopkinton, cleared the committee in a 9-2 vote last week. It would require collection of DNA samples from anyone when they are arrested for any of a long list of violent-crime charges. The samples would go into the Rhode Island DNA database, administered by an FBI national system.

The bill would apply to charges ranging from murder, manslaughter and first-degree arson to kidnapping with intent to extort, first- and second-degree sexual assault, first- and second-degree child molestation, and various degrees of assault, robbery and larceny.

The state Department of Health director would establish regulations for periodic review of the database to determine whether it contains DNA profiles it should not, “including the steps necessary to expunge any profiles which the department determines should not be in the database,” according to the bill.

Current law holds that DNA collection is done when someone is convicted of a felony.

The proposal’s next stop would be the House of Representatives. If it becomes law, it would take effect July 1, 2015. In recent years, similar legislation has cleared committee or one of the chambers but failed to advance.

The original bill called for the changes to take effect next January, but new language extended that by six months to give the state time to apply for a federal grant to pay for the program, said committee chairman Rep. Cale P. Keable, D-Burrillville. Other changes include providing more notice to a person from whom a sample is taken of the possibility of having the record of the DNA sample expunged and the sample destroyed. The offices of the attorney general, public defender and the state Health Department would post expungement provisions on their websites.

The bill received support from Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin’s office at a March legislative hearing. Joee Lindbeck, head of the attorney general’s legislation and policy unit, told the committee that DNA evidence led to a person the authorities said committed rape years earlier and, in another instance, to someone authorities said committed two brutal sexual assaults years apart in Woonsocket.

“DNA is the best law-enforcement tool we have,” said Lindbeck.

Tony Capezza, state director of the International Brotherhood of Police Officers, also expressed support.

Kennedy said at the hearing the law is being sought in states around the country. He asserted the federal grant would provide all the money the state would need for the program.

But Rep. Edith Ajello, D-Providence, a House Judiciary Committee member who has opposed similar legislation before, expressed concerns at last week’s committee meeting.

Ajello said she was “disappointed in the amendments” to the bill. She would prefer that it instead said a DNA sample would be collected at the time someone is arraigned, which comes after initial arrest. The reason, she said, is that some people end up being released or the charges are downgraded to those that no longer meet the DNA-collection requirement in the bill. She said a Maryland law, tested in the courts, uses DNA collection at arraignment.

She also questioned why someone who has been acquitted or exonerated should have the burden of going into a courthouse to get the DNA record expunged and the sample destroyed. And she questioned whether federal funding for the initiative could run out after one year.

The DNA proposal has in recent years also drawn concern from the ACLU and public defender’s office.

Twenty-nine states have some sort of DNA collection laws.
