
THE LuLu Group will mark its first retail push in Malaysia with 10 hypermarkets with a total investment value for the initial stage of around $200 million.

This was announced at a Press conference in Abu Dhabi yesterday where LuLu Group's managing director Yusuffali M A signed a memorandum of understanding with the Malaysia Federal Land Development Authority (Felda).

The event was attended by Malaysian Prime Minister Mohammad Najeeb Tun Abdul Razak.

Felda is set to be the land developer for the construction of the hypermarket building, and will lease the hypermarket on a long-term basis.

"LuLu Hypermarket in Malaysia will be the first 100 per cent halal hypermarket operated by a multinational company. The hypermarket will be part of an integrated development that includes an office building, convention centre, hotels, residences and other unique attractions," said Felda chairman Mohamed Isa Abdul Samad.

LuLu Hypermarkets are targeting to begin operations in Malaysia by early 2016.

With a start-up investment for every hypermarket worth $30m to $40m, each hypermarket is expected to create more than 200 job opportunities at all levels.

"Based on current economic outlook and location prospect, it is anticipated that LuLu Hypermarket will gain more than 20 per cent of the domestic market share in Malaysia," said Mr Samad.

"Malaysia will be one of the best markets in South East Asia. There are around 27m to 30m  people there, and we're introducing this halal concept, so it's a big potential market," said Mr Yusuffali.

The project is expected to open doors to international trade with Malaysia, especially from the Middle East.

Meanwhile, LuLu Group is set to open 17 new hypermarkets globally during 2014-2015 at a total cost of around $1 billion.

Seven outlets will be located in the UAE, while four will open in Saudi Arabia, two in Egypt, and one each in Oman, Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain.

The group will also mark its entry into the Indonesian market by opening its first hypermarket there in early 2016.
