
KATHMANDU: The Central Investigation Bureau of Nepal Police has arrested two persons involved in selling Nepali passports to Bangladeshi nationals. The apex investigating agency of Nepal Police said on Monday that it arrested Kumar Puri, 47, of Khotang, currently residing in Imadole, Lalitpur, and Purna Bahadur Magar, 43, of Sankhuwasabha, currently residing in Bishal Nagar, in the last week of April. According to SSP Uttam Kumar Karki, the duo had collected passports of 25 Nepalis who were set to fly to Saudi Arabia for employment.

KATHMANDU: Yeti Airlines on Monday handed over Rs 409,513 each to Save the Children, the United Mission to Nepal, Care Nepal and Habitat for Humanity as per their commitment made for the period of April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014.

According to Yeti Airlines, ‘the credit also goes to the passengers without whom the noble cause of helping society would not have been possible’. As part of the corporate social responsibility, Yeti Airlines donates Rs 4 per flight ticket to Save the Children, UMN, Care Nepal and Habitat for Humanity, which are involved in various social activities. Since its initiation in October 2006, Yeti Airlines has provided financial assistance of Rs 106,79,804 to various social organisations.

KATHMANDU: Nepali tourism entrepreneur Basant Raj Mishra, Executive Chairman of Temple Tiger Group of Companies, has been unanimously elected secretary/treasurer of the Pacific Asia Travel Association. The PATA Executive Board, Board Meeting and the 63rd Annual General Meeting of the association was held on May 16-18 in Zhuhai of China. According to a press release, PATA elected eight members to the Executive Committee in which Scott Supernaw and Kevin Murphey, both Americans, have been elected as Chairman and Vice Chairman, respectively. Ramon Jimenez Jr, Minister of Tourism from the Philippines and four others have been elected members to the Executive Board.

KATHMANDU: The governments of Korea and Nepal on Monday signed an agreement on ‘National Health Insurance Support Project’. Choe Yong-jin, South Korean Ambassador to Nepal and Yuba Raj Bhusal, Finance Secretary, signed the agreement on behalf of their respective governments. A press statement issued here on Monday by the Korea International Cooperation Agency said that the Korean government through KOICA will provide $4.5 million until 2017 for the project.
