
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

CLEVELAND, Ohio – A dangerous and derelict Cleveland home where two little girls died in a December arson may finally be coming down.

Fire investigators and police on Monday revisited the condemned apartment at 15417 Kipling Avenue to capture photos and video footage of the scene where Glacia Ramsey, 7, and Peaches Christburg, 2, died when someone set fire to the home . Collecting the evidence will green light the demolition of the publicly maligned property, officials said.

Broken glass and debris, pools of green sludge and a gaping hole in the front yard are just a few of the hazards that litter the lot, which authorities left unfenced after the blaze.

The state of the home -– and Cleveland's slow road to razing it -- has ruffled City Councilman Michael Polensek and many neighborhood residents.

"This property is not only an absolute eyesore, but a safety hazard too," Polensek said. "This is outrageous."

Last week, Maureen Harper, a spokeswoman for Mayor Frank Jackson, said the city was ready to tear down the building once prosecutors and police cleared the property.

The county prosecutor's office punted the issue to police.

"We have advised CPD that they need to get a high-quality video and still photographs of the interior of the house for evidence before it could be torn down," said spokesman Joe Frolik in an email.

A police spokeswoman said officers would execute a search warrant at the home Monday and Tuesday. She would not give any other details.

Northeast Ohio Media Group will provide an update when new information becomes available.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.   To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
