
New York City mayor Bill de Blasio's wife has told how being a mother did not come naturally to her when she first had children.

Chirlane McCray has made a startlingly honest confession about how she had trouble adapting when her daughter Chiara was born 19 years ago.

'The truth is, I could not spend every day with her. I didn’t want to do that. I looked for all kinds of reason not to do it,' she told New York Magazine .

She explained in the interview published today that the role of mother is one that she did not expect later in life.

'I was 40 years old. I had a life. Especially with Chiara- will we feel guilt forever more? Of course, yes,' she said of how she found herself trying to get back to work after having her first child.

Mrs McCray was two months pregnant with Chiara when she married de Blasio, and the New York Magazine profile explains that by the time their son Dante was born three years later, Chirlane had adopted the role as the ‘default parent’ while her husband was working as the regional director of the Department of Housing and Urban Development for then-President Bill Clinton.

She returned to work after several years off but was still focused on child-rearing.

‘The kids came first,’ she said.

Chiara and Dante came into the spotlight during the campaign, with Dante and his famous Afro starring in an ad for this dad that is credited with turning the tide of the race.

Chiara was regularly featured on the campaign trail as well but her bigger moment came on Christmas Eve- just days before her father was sworn into office- when she released a video describing how she has been undergoing treatment for depression and drug abuse.

‘I've had depression like clinical depression for my entire adolescence,’ Chiara said in the video.

The New York Magazine piece is far from the first time that Mrs McCray has been open about her personal life, as she penned an essay for Essence Magazine in 1979 coming out as a lesbian.

She had romantic relationships with women for the majority of her adult life before dating de Blasio, and she told New York that one of the most moving moments early on in their courtship came when he introduced her to his mother and his aunts, that he called ‘The Three Graces’, who had raised him after his estranged father’s suicide.

‘That moved me. It really did,’ Mrs McCray said.

Their relationship has grown from there, with New York City’s first couple celebrating their 20th wedding anniversary last week and Mrs McCray posted a photo on her Twitter feed of the pair smiling while toasting champagne.

Throughout the mayoral campaign, Mrs McCray was often described as a co-mayor, but insiders painted her role as more of a constant partner and sounding board for her husband.

Some advisors actually nicknamed her ‘mophie’, which is the name of a type of iPhone case used by de Blasio, because ‘one entirely covers the ¬other; they are inseparable’.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
