
They came, they saw the thermometers and they were conquered.

It's official, Britain will bask in warmer weather this weekend than Rome or Athens as the mercury climbs to the highest level it has reached thus far in 2014.

Forecasters said the temperature is expected to rise as high as 24C (75.2F) in much of England today, while in Rome and Athens it is anticipated to be in the low 20s.

Retailers are bracing themselves for a run on barbecue food while thousands of people are likely to flock to beaches and parks to make the most of the sunshine before it becomes more unsettled next week.

A Met Office spokeswoman said yesterday was already the warmest day of the year so far for England, after the mercury reached 21.9C (71.4F) in Coventry.

The previous top temperature was 21.2C (70.7F), while the highest yet in Britain was 22C (71.6F) in Aviemore, Scotland, on April 28.

The Met Office spokeswoman said: "Most areas are going to see quite a sunny start but it will become cloudy in the South East and South West in the afternoon from about 4pm although will still be remaining warm.

"The East of England and the South East will be 23C to 24C, with the rest of the country in the mid to high teens or early 20s, particularly in areas that see prolonged sunshine.

"Overnight temperatures will be very, very mild as well – in the mid teens – so really nice, warm evening temperatures."

She said tomorrow is also expected to be a fine and dry day although parts of Northern Ireland and Scotland are likely to see rain.

Next week will become more unsettled with thundery showers anticipated all over the country although overnight temperatures are also expected to stay warm.

Tourism businesses in the region will also be hoping for a busy weekend, given the weather forecast.

Sally Munro, marketing manager at WWT Slimbridge Wetland Centre, said: "We are expecting our outdoor wet playground Welly Boot Land to be busy this weekend with families wanting to cool off and go for a paddle in this lovely warm weather.

"Our Land Rover Safaris are also starting again this weekend. Visitors on Safari go on a guided tour of our world-famous reserve from the comfort of a covered trailer."

Rosie Henderson, organiser of today's Daylesford Summer Festival in Kingham, Gloucestershire, which celebrates the start of British summertime, said they were looking forward to fun in the sun.

She said: 'This is a free event for food lovers, so that's a great reason to come.

"There's lots going on from farm tours to sheepdog demo, rare breeds on show, dog show, working horses, trailer rides, a barbecue and a Prosecco bar."
