
The White House is giving lukewarm support to its increasingly embattled secretary for veterans affairs, Eric Shinseki, warning that further heads will roll if an independent report confirms a deliberate cover-up of dangerous hospital appointment backlogs.

Administration spokesman Jay Carney declined two opportunities to deny that Shinseki's job was under threat during a press briefing on Monday before adding simply that the president “has confidence” in the secretary.

“We are of the view that the kinds of allegations that we have seen need to be investigated rigorously and once we know all the facts it is absolutely appropriate that accountable individuals ought to be held to account,” he said.

The less than full-throated defence of the cabinet member follows similar comments by White House chief of staff Dennis McDonough on Sunday, who said the president was “madder than hell” about the scandal.

"The president will continue to demand that he and all of us who work for him continue to fix these things until they are functioning the way that our veterans believe they should," McDonough told CBS's Face the Nation.

McDonough's comments, which echo the decision to keep Kathleen Sebelius as health secretary only until she had stabilised a botched health insurance website, prompted questions on Monday about whether Obama's support for Shinseki was wavering.

The White House also denied accusations that a decision to sack a department official Robert Petzel, on Friday was “window dressing” because he was due to stand down soon anyway .

“The top official in charge of the veterans health system was requested to resign by the American Legion and he did so one day after his Senate testimony. That undercuts the assertion that it's not a meaningful development,” said Carney.

At the stormy Senate hearing last week, Shinseki refused to resign, claiming he was also “mad as hell” about the allegations of fatal delays and cover-up in delayed care for veterans .

The scandal has spiralled as allegations that as many as 40 veterans at a Phoenix hospital died while waiting for care have been compounded by evidence that officials deliberately manipulated data to hide the size of the waiting list to avoid breaching internal rules. An inspector general for the VA told the Senate panel last week that no evidence yet links patient deaths to long wait times.

More than 10 million US veterans are covered by the public healthcare system, which has been strained by the admission of 2 million new patients since 2009 following the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and recognition of new post-traumatic stress cases and Agent Orange victims from the Vietnam war.

Backlogs and staff shortages have long been seized upon by veterans groups lobbying for more resources, but it is the apparent cover-up of the scale of the problem that has transformed these latest complaints into a growing political problem for the White House.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
