
Ukip’s top candidate in Scotland at this week’s European elections has accused Alex Salmond of “sectarian” campaign tactics for visiting a mosque on the election trail last week.

David Coburn claims if he had undertaken a similar visit to a venue such as a Roman Catholic cathedral, he would have faced the same accusation. But last night he was urged to apologise by SNP European candidate Tasmina Ahmed Sheikh who branded Ukip “small-minded and intolerant”.

Mr Salmond himself warned it is now a straight fight between the Nationalists and Ukip for the final Scottish euro seat in Thursday’s election.

The “sectarian” accusation came as Ukip leader Nigel Farage continued to face a storm of criticism following an interview on radio where he suggested that there was a difference between how people should feel if Romanian or German people moved in next door.

Ukip is widely expected to sweep to victory across the UK, but faces another failure in Scotland with the latest polling indicating it will fall short of gaining one of Scotland’s six Euro seats.

However, Mr Coburn, 55, who would be elected if Ukip did manage to snatch the last seat, insisted yesterday that the Nationalists are “extremely  rattled” and worried over the inroads which were being made by his party.

He said in an interview with the The Scotsman: “You can see by the way that they’ve dealt with it.

“There was Alex Salmond off down to the mosque. If we had done something like that or gone off to the Roman Catholic cathedral, we would be accused of sectarianism.

The Ukip candidate insists that his party’s support is strong among the Asian community in Scotland.

Ms Ahmed-Sheikh was on the campaign trail in Inverurie with the First Minister yesterday and hit out at the Ukip candidate’s remarks.

She said: “Mr Coburn’s absurd comments prove what we already knew about Ukip – they are a small-minded, intolerant party that must be rejected by Scotland at the ballot box this Thursday.

“The polls show Scotland’s sixth seat in the European Parliament is a clear choice between the SNP and Ukip, and it is very important that Ukip do not get a foothold in Scottish politics.

“Scotland is a diverse, multi-ethnic country and this diversity enriches and strengthens our whole society – something Ukip clearly know nothing about.

Mr Salmond said voters have a choice between candidate Ms Ahmed-Sheikh and Ukip. He said: “The intolerant message that Ukip is peddling has no place in Scotland and the way in which to keep Ukip’s agenda out of Scottish politics is by voting SNP.

Despite increased support for the anti-European Union Ukip, which is not yet represented at any level in Scotland, Scots do appear relatively happy with  European membership.

An ICM poll for The Scotsman shows 41 per cent of Scottish voters think the UK has benefited from being in the EU compared with 29 per cent who believe it has not benefited.

Scotland is currently represented by six MEPs – two SNP, two Labour, one Tory and one Lib Dem.

Ukip is sitting on about 9 and 10 per cent among Scots, according to weekend polls, which would see it fall short of gaining a seat in Thursday’s vote.  But Mr Coburn insisted that he is getting a strong reaction in more working-class areas of Scotland.

He said: “They’re fed-up. They have been let down by the Labour Party, the Conservative Party don’t exist, the Liberal party are a joke and the  Scottish Nationalists are not interested in anything expect independence.

Glasgow-born Mr Coburn, who has a background in  international freight and the antiques trade, attracted criticism earlier this year by saying Glasgow City Council gave the perception that it favoured gays and lesbians.

He also said he thought gay marriage was “rubbing people’s noses in it”.

The impact of Ukip success south of the Border is likely to sway the way many Scots will vote in the referendum, polling for The Scotsman revealed yesterday .

ICM pollsters found 18 per cent of those surveyed would be more likely to vote Yes if Ukip tops the polls across Britain this week, compared with 8 per cent who said they would be more likely to vote No.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
