
China has used diplomatic channels to warn North Korea against conducting a fourth nuclear test after Pyongyang renewed its threat of  "counter-measures" against perceived US hostility.

North Korea regularly threatens the South and the  United States with destruction and is already under heavy sanctions imposed by several UN resolutions beginning in 2006.

But it has defied pressure to abandon its missile and nuclear programs.

It last conducted a nuclear test in February 2013.

"China has told North Korea that there is no justification for a new nuclear test and that they should not do it," a Western diplomat who was briefed by Chinese officials said.

The sources says China has used diplomatic channels in Beijing and Pyongyang to convey its anxiety about the possibility of a fourth test.

China is North Korea's most important diplomatic and economic ally, though three nuclear tests and several rounds of sabre rattling have tested Beijing's support.

But sources say China has not threatened the North with explicit consequences and its message has remained consistent.

"They are against another nuclear test - but it is a mistake to believe that China is getting more severe," said a second diplomatic source, adding that China had raised the issue with a special envoy appointed by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

The United States has said it hopes China will use its influence to coax the North to abandon its banned nuclear weapons program.

In recent public statements, Chinese foreign ministry officials have repeatedly called on all parties to "exercise restraint" on the Korean peninsula, without pointing the finger at North Korea alone.

China signed on to tougher UN sanctions last year after the third nuclear test, but has come under criticism from western countries and independent experts for failing to implement them properly.

China's stability-obsessed government fears the continuing development of North Korea's nuclear program will unsettle the region.

Foreign Minister Wang Yi said in March that denuclearisation on the peninsula was the only road to peace, and that China would not permit war or instability on its doorstep.

Japan will hold high-level governmental talks with North Korea next week over a range of issues including Pyongyang's nuclear ambitions, the Japanese government said on Monday.

The talks will take place in Stockholm from May 26 to 28, after similar meetings in Beijing at the end of March.

"We are set to discuss issues that two sides are interested in to make progress," a Foreign Ministry official said, adding that those issues included Japanese citizens abducted decades ago by North Korea.

North Korea's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper said this month the country was justified in using all available means at its disposal to counter aggressive challenges by the United States and South Korea aimed at stifling its sovereignty.

Zhang Liangui, a North Korea expert at China's Central Party  School, said it was likely China would support another round of  sanctions on the North if it went ahead with another test.

"It's very possible that China would support even tougher  sanctions on North Korea," he said.

"I think China should also think about adjusting the aid it provides."

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
