
The Baba Jukwa camp is reportedly in a state of panic  following the sustained publication of information seized by hackers  from an email account that had been used to solicit for online donations  and indications the authorities may have more information than they  initially let on, the Herald reported.

The authorities have remained curiously tight lipped  over the issue with none of the security services coming forward to  confirm or deny allegations the intelligence services were involved in  the hacking of private emails.

A source with ties to Ncube last  night claimed that there were plans to try and discredit the  increasingly damaging publication of emails that were authored by the  pair and their collaborators.

One of the plans, the source said,  was to try and discredit the information by planting screenshots  digitally manipulated in Photoshop purporting to show a connection  between Baba Jukwa and Amai Jukwa, a columnist with The Herald.

It  would be then alleged that the same administrator was behind the two  accounts. The information would be supplied to sympathetic media houses  as the work of foreign hackers.

Sources within the intelligence  services who spoke to The Sunday Mail dismissed the alleged plot saying  there were investigations in June 2013 which established that the  accounts were being run by different people.

A police officer  familiar with the investigations who wished to remain anonymous citing  the sensitivity around the investigations laughed off the planned  association and said the police knew who they were investigating and  would not be distracted by attempts to fabricate evidence.

Last  week some media reports suggested that The Sunday Mail Editor Edmund  Kudzayi was behind the Amai Jukwa character. In a ZiFM Stereo interview  on Wednesday last week, Kudzayi dismissed the insinuation as harmless  mischief.

Last night Kudzayi jokingly responded to the rumours saying whoever was behind the character deserved a farm.

"Quite  sadly, I am not Amai Jukwa but Iet it be on record certainly would love  to be. I follow her column weekly and am impressed by the nationalist  blood that runs so vibrantly in that old woman's veins as well as her  intellectual clarity of thought. Whoever is behind that column certainly  deserves The Zimbabwe Order of Merit or at the very least a farm. In  fact, I would love to offer her a well-paying job at The Sunday Mail,"  he said in a telephone interview.

The Herald Editor Caesar Zvayi  also likened associating Baba Jukwa and Amai Jukwa to mistaking water  and oil saying Amai Jukwa was a mainstream columnist just like Nathaniel  Manheru and Bra Gee, who both prefer pseudonyms but are well known to  the senior editorial team at The Herald.

"Mai Jukwa is an  individual and cannot be likened to Baba Jukwa who has been exposed as a  legion of collaborators operating in what has been called the lunatic  fringe of the media, Mai Jukwa is seriously mainstream," Zvayi said.

The  Jukwa family began as harmless online banter on the forums of online  tabloid NewZimbabwe.com with a pro-Zanu PF character calling himself  Jukwa. This was followed by a self-appointed wife of Jukwa that was also  pro-Zanu PF that called herself Amai Jukwa in November 2012.

The  Amai Jukwa character was then invited to run a column on  NewZimbabwe.com which led to offers from print publications. Amai Jukwa  quickly amassed an online following on the Facebook social network  prompting a pro-MDC copycat page from Mxolisi Ncube and Mkhululi Chimoio  which they named Baba Jukwa and launched in March 2013.

Amai Jukwa's Facebook page was closed by Facebook sometime in 2013.

Last  week The Herald reported the suspected involvement of a team of New  Zealand-based hackers in the operation to seize control of data from an  email account connected to the Baba Jukwa syndicate. New documents seen  by The Herald paint the picture of a highly sophisticated operation in  which the team made use of a command-and-control server based in  Australia where they stored seized data before siphoning it into a  number of servers.

Questions remain as to how the authorities got access to the data.

There  has been a growth in State sponsored hacking with a former NSA  contractor Edward Snowden alleging widespread hacking by the United  States. The Chinese military has also been accused of running hacking  operations under PLA Unit 61938. Meanwhile, other nationalist hackers  such as the Syrian Electronic Army have no direct ties to Governments.
