
Participate in Share Chat.

Athens (Alliance News) - Greece's fragile ruling coalition suffered a setback as the far-left SYRIZA party scored gains in the first round of municipal and regional elections, results on Monday showed.

The ruling conservative New Democracy party performed poorly in the main municipalities of Athens, Pireaus and Thessaloniki and in the country's two biggest regions, Attica and Central Macedonia. However, the conservatives led in nine of the 13 regions across the country going into the second round.

SYRIZA's Gavriil Sakellarisis, 33, will advance to the run-off for mayor of Athens. With more than 95% of the ballots from Sunday's voting counted, he had received 20%, running neck-and-neck with center-left incumbent Giorgos Kaminis' 21.03%.

The far-left also led in the wider Attica region, which is home to nearly a third of Greece's population.

SYRIZA candidate Rena Dourou, led with 23.71% of the votes for the Attica governorship against Socialist rival Giannis Sgouros' 22.19%.

The elections in hundreds of constituencies across Greece were the first nationwide test at the polls for New Democracy Prime Minister Antonis Samaras since taking office in 2012.

A second round of voting Sunday will coincide with European Parliament elections.

Univeristy of Athens Professor Dimitris Sotiropoulos said that while SYRIZA had made significant gains, the "outright victory it was anticipating failed to materalize."

"The first round of voting ended with no single party securing enough support to declare an outright victory."

But a poll by Kapa conducted late Sunday showed SYRIZA's popularity was on the upswing for the more important EU vote. The survey showed it winning over New Democracy by nearly 5 points.

SYRIZA leader Alexis Tsipras is calling for many of the austerity measures and reforms to be scrapped under the country's 240-billion euro (357-billion dollar) bailout. He is looking to use the local polls and European Parliament elections as a referendum to topple Samaras' coalition.

"The European elections will be a referendum on the EU-IMF memorandum," said Tsipras, adding that "there is no historical precedent for the governing party not making it into the second round of voting in the country's biggest region and biggest municipality."

Should either Sakellarisis or Dourou win the run-offs next week, it would be the first time a far-left party has won either post, both of which have traditionally been held by New Democracy and PASOK.

The results are evidence of the anger felt by voters over austerity reforms demanded under Greece's international bailout, including repeated tax hikes and pension and salary cuts, while unemployment has soared to nearly 27%.

A decisive victory for SYRIZA in next week's vote could put the prime minister's two-seat coalition majority in parliament under threat, forcing him to bow to pressure for early elections.

Fearing the worst, Samaras has challenged voters to show that "Greece has the stability it deserves" in the EU vote.

"It is in Greeks' hands to either contribute to there being certainty that we will progress with steady steps or to let the country slide backwards," said Samaras.

Meanwhile, an independent led in Greece's second largest city of Thessaloniki, where leftist-backed incumbent Yannis Boutaris took more than 36% of the votes.

The far-right Golden Dawn party failed to make the run-off for the Athens mayor race, but its candidate, Ilias Kasidiaris, still managed to win more than 16% of the ballots.

The party remains Greece's fourth most popular despite a judicial crackdown that has seen its top lawmakers, including its leader, jailed pending trial.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
