
MUSCATINE, Iowa — It's under control.

That's the message a member of a local motorcycle club had Monday morning for the Muscatine Board of Supervisors about an event club members want to hold from May 30 to June 1 at the club's headquarters, located at 2097 U.S. Highway 61 South.

Last week, Muscatine County Attorney Alan Ostergren requested a parking restriction for the area, which would cover the Old Highway 61 roadway from the U.S. Highway 61 intersection just south of Muscatine Municipal Airport for 0.7 mile and onto Access Road for approximately 0.1 mile.

Ostergren previously said he was concerned about the possibility of large numbers of motorcycles parked around the area for the Eastern Iowa: We Ain't Playing Possum Party that the Sons of Silence club is hosting.

At the Monday meeting, club member Cyle Geertz, who also serves as mayor of Nichols, said the event in Muscatine is intended to be far smaller than other area motorcycle events, such as Thunder in the Sand near Conesville, which have run on Memorial Day and Labor Day weekends.

"Conesville is not having a motorcycle rally, so some of the folk that we normally associate with at their party would like to attend and so we thought we'd just host one on our property," Geertz said.

Geertz said the group will have parking at the nearby House of Atlas business, and will also have some shuttle vans to take party-goers to area hotels. Donations at the party will go toward funding club expenses, such as property and tax payments. Geertz noted that one of the ways the group was trying to keep attendance down was to not have the event on Memorial Day weekend.

In addition, the club is making efforts to keep noise down during the event, such as setting up a stage for musical acts that has the speakers facing away from neighboring homes and not having music played after midnight.

The group is expecting 150-200 people to attend, as opposed to past events in Conesville that reached attendances in the thousands.

"Those are our neighbors down there, and we want to be courteous to our neighbors," Geertz said. "We're not trying to cause any problems out there. We've been there 10 years and we haven't had any problems yet, and we're not anticipating any and we plan to stick around for a while."

"We certainly appreciate you coming here today," Board Chairman Bob Howard said in response. While suggesting it might have been helpful for the group to come before the board sooner regarding the event, Howard did say that he was happy to see it had planned for the parking situation.

Supervisor Kas Kelly said that she had contacted several neighbors of the group and said they had raised some concerns about the event to her, including noise in the area, such as motorcycles and gunshots, the possibility of alcohol being served at the event, and possible drag racing in the area. She also noted that neighbors were also concerned that the three acres of the property would be too small to host the event.

"Historically, there have been issues [with the club]," said Kelly, who advised the group to keep in contact with their neighbors about the event.

Geertz said the Sons of Silence had never drag raced in the area, although they did do target shooting on their property. Muscatine County Sheriff Dave White said his department had not had to cite anyone for racing in the area, and that the group generally appeared to be good neighbors.

"Our concern is how many people show up," White said.

Supervisor Scott Sauer, the only supervisor not to vote in favor of the temporary parking rule last week, noted that he'd received more public comments on this issue than any issue he'd dealt with in the nearly year and a half he'd been in office, and those comments were overwhelmingly in favor of his vote.

"I think it sets a bad precedent," he said of the vote to restrict parking.

The other supervisors later noted that they had all received at least some public comments on the issue, as well.

Ostergren, who was at Monday's meeting, asked Geertz how alcohol sales would be handled at the event. Geertz said attendees could bring their own alcohol to the event or get some from coolers which would be monitored by event security, although he admitted the group did not have liability insurance in the event of damage caused by drunk driving. Ostergren said it would be illegal for the group to accept donations for alcohol, but Geertz countered that the donations were for attending the event, not for the alcohol.

The board took no other action on the matter Monday.

The board unanimously approved the purchase of a new indexing system for the Muscatine County Recorder's office.

County recorder Cynthia Gray recommended the purchase of an Eagle Indexing/Imaging program from Tyler Technologies at a total cost of $62,418. Gray told the board that the program will improve her office's ability to index and digitize documents to allow easier public access. In a previous memo to the council, she also noted that other county agencies are already using Tyler programs, which would help ease training and transitional issues.

"Would a new recorder have a problem learning this coming in?" Howard asked Gray, who will be leaving office next year. Gray said it should be easier for a newcomer to learn than the current system, which was first installed in 1989. In response to a question from Sauer about why it was necessary to update the program, she said the software needed to be updated due to its age and the fact that support for the current software would soon no longer be available.

"The need has been there all along," said Supervisor Tom Furlong.

The board unanimously approved the last of three readings of an amended county subdivision ordinance. The changes include changing the definition of subdivisions, which would allow some agricultural land to be used for that purpose; extending the time the subdivision has to be recorded after approval from 60 to 90 days; and increasing fines for the violation of the ordinance from $500 to between $750 and $1,000.

The board approved two county positions, a lead legal secretary and a lead custodian position, which will replace current positions of lower rank. As part of the move, both current positions will be renamed, increased in rank and given additional duties. The lead legal secretary is expected to receive a salary of $33,951, $4,277 over the current position, and the lead custodian is expected to receive a salary of $29,653, an increase of $1,999 from the current position.

In a related matter, the board also approved the transfer of Kristy Healy, who was formerly a legal secretary, to Step 4 in the lead legal secretary position. Ostergren said the move reflected her prior experience.

Due to the Memorial Day holiday, the Board will not meet in session next week.

Copyright 2014 Muscatine Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
