
She told Ashford People's Assembly activists to 'f*** off'

UKIP’s most senior female representative has been photographed giving a rude hand gesture in response to a group of local activists who questioned her party’s policies in a Kent town centre this weekend.

Janice Atkinson, second on UKIP’s Europe list after party leader Nigel Farage, gave a one-fingered answer to members of Ashford People’s Assembly who were staging a peaceful protest next to the party stand.

The former ‘Cameron cutie’, who left the Conservatives in 2011, also made a ‘personal comment’ about a female activist’s body size, and told her she did not care where the incriminating photograph was posted, but for the group to ‘f*** off’.

Ashford People’s Assembly member Maria Pizzey posted the photograph of Mrs Atkinson’s ‘response’ on Facebook, which has been shared more than 55,000 times.

‘She made personal comments about my body size and when I told her I would quote her widely she said "I don't care where you f***ing post this, just f*** off!"

In her post Ms Pizzey, who is also an active member of the Green Party, added that Mrs Atkinson offered ‘no debate or arguments’ to defend UKIP, and that she instead swore and gave them the finger.

In another post, Ms Pizzey  points out that the man Mrs Ashford was there to support, UKIP’s Ashford  chair Norman Taylor, appeared uncomfortable about the situation.

Mrs  Atkinson also posted on social media about the incident. She tweeted a picture showing the  activists, and, as well as mislabelling  them as Green Party representatives, made a snide comment about their  appearance claiming they harassed passersby.

She  tweeted the the caption: ‘The attractive face of the  Greens, apparently. Harassing public in Ashford today. Many complained,  one to police’.

Activist  Thom Pizzey refuted these claims, replying to Mrs Atkinson: '@JaniceUKIP  Harassing? You mean exercising free speech and freedom to protest. The  only person who swore or was aggressive was yourself.'

Mrs Atkinson is the UKIP MEP South East Candidate as well as the party’s press advisor, and has previously called for protesters who 'harass UKIP supporters’ to be arrested.

Mrs Atkinson later released a statement to MailOnline, where she says that the protest was a result of the Ashford People's Assembly activists being 'so far left they daren't knock on doors'.

'This Green rabble are the Socialist  Workers anarchy wing of the Greens. Their views are so far left that  they daren't knock on doors asking for votes.

'They were intimidating my party  workers, women and elderly distinguished gentlemen, calling them racist  bigots, that is unacceptable.

'They  were intimidating members of the public who approached me, including  one young woman who said she was in her 30s and had never voted before,  but that she was voting for me.

'The  fat Green woman approached her, telling her that I was a racist bigot.  She was very upset, she later told me she had complained to the police. '

Just last week, Janice Atkinson claimed police raids in Kent were a result of immigration and Eastern European criminal gangs.

‘Ninety per cent of ATM [cash machine] crime is committed by Romanian gangs and drug and gun crime is mainly run by Eastern Europeans,’ Mrs Atkinson wrote in a press release.

'Gang masters are operating illegal workers in the agriculture and food processing businesses.'

Sunday afternoon, the UKIP chairwoman told KentOnline that she was 'not proud' of the hand gesture, and that the protesters had upset her.

The Green Party’s MEP for South East England, the constituency Janice Atkinson is aiming to be elected to represent has today responded to the UKIP chairwoman’s comments about the party.

‘It’s becoming increasingly clear that UKIP fear the Greens. In this election campaign we’ve see the police called on one of our members who tweeted the truth about UKIP and our campaigners abused by their candidates,’ Keith Taylor, MEP said.

Earlier this week, UKIP party leader Nigel Farage barely made it out alive from a car-crash interview on LBC radio in which he was challenged over racism, hypocrisy and secret EU expenses.

Farage's media spin chief even tried to intervene to end the live interview as he struggled to fend off the barrage of questions after appearing to suggest it was okay for his wife to speak German - but not in public.

The UKIP leader also claimed there was a big difference between Romanian immigrants and other foreigners.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
