
The LS3P design of 300 South Tryon shows a 25-story tower totaling 632,385 square feet.

Babson Capital Management anticipates Charlotte will become its corporate headquarters after it moves into a new 25-story Class-A office building at 300 S. Tryon St. in 2017.

Babson on Monday confirmed it will be the anchor tenant of the development at the corner of Third Street and South Tryon in center city. The building was first reported by my colleague Will Boye .

And in a phone interview with the Charlotte Business Journal today, Babson Chairman and Chief Executive Tom Finke says the company's headquarters may soon follow.

"There's nothing firm yet. But we're anticipating that could be an eventual outcome," Finke says. He is a Charlotte resident.

Babson notified employees of the headquarters possibility in an internal memo last week, telling them Charlotte's classification as the headquarters was possible, though no one would be required to relocate. The firm's current headquarters is in Springfield, Mass.

Babson has about 140 employees occupying about 45,000 square feet in the Duke Energy Center following a recent expansion. It has committed to leasing 200,000 square feet in the new building, which will have a total of 633,000 square feet.

The 1.6-acre site at Third and South Tryon is owned by Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers , a subsidiary of Babson Capital, which is owned by MassMutual Financial Group. The building will be developed by Spectrum Properties .

Groundbreaking is set for this fall, and construction is scheduled to be completed by the spring of 2017. The building, which will overlook Romare Bearden Park, will be called 300 South Tryon.

Babson, an institutional asset manager, has more than $200 billion in assets worldwide. The company's high-yield fixed-income business is based in Charlotte, as is the head of its global fixed-income unit, Russ Morrison . Chief Operating Officer Paul Thompson is also based here. Babson has its global business development unit in Charlotte, as well as some risk, compliance and legal teams. The company has nearly 1,000 employees worldwide, with major offices in London and Sydney.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Charlotte Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
