
The Wolmer's Trust Schools are this year celebrating 285 years as one of the Caribbean's oldest educational institutions.

To mark the milestone, Wolmer's is hosting a weeklong celebration, which began with a service yesterday at the Kingston Parish Church and a founder's brunch at Wolmer's Girls' School, also in Kingston.

"We are focused on maintaining and increasing our outcomes in education, and achieving that, then we would have done a lot," Pauline Findley, chairperson of the Wolmer's Trust Schools, told The Gleaner at yesterday's church service.

"The sky is the limit, and as these young people go out in the society, they are encouraged and expected to do community service. Each Wolmerian is equipped for life to be a leader in whatever they do and bring about change, wherever they go," she added.

Wolmer's was founded in 1729 to fulfil the wishes of philanthropist John Wolmer, who in his will left the bulk of his more than £2,000 estate for the establishment of a free school in the parish of his death.

Yesterday, Findley said Wolmer's, which comprises a preschool, preparatory school, boys' high school and girls' high school, was aiming to improve and expand its sixth-form programme.

Throughout its history, Wolmer's has produced numerous notable figures, including former Prime Minister Edward Seaga and former Governor General Sir Florizel Glasspole, as well as Olympians Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce and Michael Frater.

Outgoing head boy Jesse Roye and head girl Justine Murray, of the trust's two high schools and who both aspire to become actuarial scientists, stressed that the Wolmer's legacy, was one they would always treasure.

"My experience was second to none. And it's a privilege to be the head boy. The life values learned are ones to treasured," said Roye.

"I had a wonderful experience and, as a leader, you learn a lot and make lifelong friends," said Murray.

The comments on this page do not necessarily reflect the views of The Gleaner.

The Gleaner reserves the right not to publish comments that may be deemed libelous, derogatory or indecent.           Please keep comments short and precise. A maximum of 8 sentences should be the target.           Longer responses/comments should be sent to "Letters of the Editor" using the feedback form provided.
