
As the Ukip leader tries to calm the backlash over his comments, Channel 4 News readers give their verdict on who they would prefer as a neighbour: Nigel Farage or "a group of Romanian men".

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.

Nigel Farage has backtracked on comments he made last week that he  would be "concerned" if a group of Romanian men moved in next door.

On Monday, Ukip took out a full-page advertisement in the Daily Telegraph to insist that the party is not racist and to say that the vast  majority of Romanians in the UK would make good neighbours. However he  added that Romania had "struggled to complete a full transition into a  western democracy" and said that the UK can do nothing to stop  "organised criminal gangs" from coming to Britain because of EU free  movement laws.

He quoted Met Police stats that 92 per cent of all ATM crime in London is committed by Romanians.

The open letter signed by Mr Farage ended with the sentence: "It is  not racist to want to stop organised criminal gangs undermining our way  of life - it is common sense."

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said that Mr Farage's remarks had revealed his "divisive, nasty approach" to politics.

"I think the mask is starting to slip and I think what's being   revealed that sort of behind the beer-swilling bonhomie is a rather   nasty view of the world," he told BBC1's The Andrew Marr Show. "I think   anyone who singles out one community, one nationality, and says 'I  don't  want to live next door to them', I really think that's the  politics of  division and I think it really should have no place in  modern Britain."

But what did the voters think? Channel 4 News asked readers on Facebook whether they would prefer the Ukip leader or a "group of Romanians" as   next-door neighbours. A "share" of the question on to a personal   Facebook page was a vote for the Romanians; a "like" was a vote for Mr   Farage.

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.

The verdict? Almost 550 people opted for Ukip's frontman - but almost double (917) said they'd prefer Romanian neighbours.

Mihaela Ioana Pantelimon: I am Romanian and I am as normal as possible. I am living in a normal house and we have nice neighbourhood. Sorry to disappoint you guys.

Carl Griffith: How many people could actually say that if they were told some Romanians were moving in next door that they'd be totally cool with it and not even flinch? Ask yourselves that and then ask yourselves if your reaction would be no different to being told that your neighbours were going to be a middle class English family. Ask yourselves and be honest. Then see how highly your liberal high horse makes you feel.

Matt Linehan: Terrible, these foreigners, coming over here, taking jobs.... take Mrs Farage for example. Wake up people.

Tracey Hodghton: It's not about where you're from, it's who you are now, and how much you respect the country you and people you live in with!

Richard McCormick: The reality is the egotistical and over powered left in this country use the accusations of "racist", "intolerance" and "equality" too easily, they fire these accusations or demands like bullets. I for one am sick to death listening to their worn out propaganda.

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.
