
Share This Story!

Most people hate political attack ads, but few would pay attention to warm and fuzzy ads.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Most people hate political attack ads, but few would pay much attention to warm and fuzzy ads that have only nice things to say about the opposition.

One reason political candidates are reasonably free to attack their opponents using words that sting is that the courts have made it difficult for politicians to sue for defamation of character. Political speech ranks at the top of the hierarchy of speech protected by the First Amendment because the democratic process thrives on a free exchange of information, even information that is sometimes mean, unfair and untrue.

From the time that Thomas Jefferson was called "the son of a half-breed squaw, sired by a Virginia mulatto father," American political discourse has been marked by false and defamatory accusations. This is the price of admission to the process, and politicians should find a different line of work if they can't take the heat.

Thus, the Iowa Supreme Court last week dismissed a defamation case brought by state Sen. Rick Bertrand, R-Sioux City, throwing out a jury's judgment of $31,000 against his 2010 opponent, Rick Mullin, and $200,000 against the Iowa Democratic Party. Federal and state courts have historically set the bar very high for political figures to win defamation lawsuits, and the court said Bertrand did not make it over that bar.

In this case, the Democrats' attack ad implied that Bertrand sold a potentially harmful sleep-aid drug to children. He did, in fact, work for a pharmaceutical company but not for the division that sold the sleeping pills. In an ordinary defamation lawsuit, a misstatement of facts based on negligence might be enough to justify monetary damages, but that is not enough in the case of a political figure.

The modern legal standard for public officials was applied in the U.S. Supreme Court's 1964 ruling in New York Times v. Sullivan. Under the standard, a plaintiff must demonstrate with clear and convincing evidence that the defendant made a false statement with "actual malice" — that is, the defendant knew the statement was false but published it anyway.

In this case, Bertrand was unable to produce sufficient evidence that Mullin and the Democratic Party knew for a fact that the implication of the ad was inaccurate. "The truth, of course, was that Bertrand never worked for the particular division of the company that marketed the drug and never sold the drug," the Supreme Court said. "Nevertheless, there was no evidence that Mullin or the Iowa Democratic Party knew the implied statement that Bertrand sold the drug was false."

The decision, written by Chief Justice Mark Cady, was unanimous (although Justices Brent Appel and Edward Mansfield did not participate), is reassuring. It was surprising that the Sioux City jury's $231,000 judgment was allowed by the district judge to stand in the first place, and it would have been stunning blow to free-wheeling political speech had the Supreme Court upheld the award.

Politicians should know that once they enter the rough and tumble of politics they have to withstand attacks that seem like lies. It is the job of the voters, not the government or the courts, to judge whether political speech strays too far from the truth.
