
The police commissioner of Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, has resigned amid mounting pressure from town residents after it became public knowledge that he called President Barack Obama the N-word in March.

Robert Copeland, 82, who was re-elected this year to serve another three-year term as the town’s police commissioner, was defiant when he was first approached about the comments he made at a local diner.

He admitted to two commissioners that he indeed had used the N-word in reference to the president because Obama exceeded the definition of the term.

Mitt Romney, the former Republican governor of Massachusetts who sought the presidency against Obama in 2012, called upon Copeland to resign.

In a town hall meeting last week, more than 200 residents of Wolfeboro demanded that Copeland step down. The town has roughly 20 black residents, according Yahoo News.

Yahoo News also reported that Copeland wrote in an April email to two commissioners, that he used the N-word in reference to Obama and went on to say, "For this, I do not apologize — he meets and exceeds my criteria for such."

In addition to part-time resident Mitt Romney, Copeland’s language drew the ire of Police Chief Stuart Chase. He reportedly said Copeland's “slur was not indicative of the posture of this department. We treat everyone with dignity and respect."

Race relations in America have been an issue since the first Africans arrived on these shores. Social scientist Dr. W. E. B. DuBois wrote in 1903, “The problem of the 20th century will be the problem of the color line …” Indeed it was. None can argue successfully that the 20th century solved the problem of the color line.

Comments like those made by Copeland highlight the fact that the problem of the color line still has to be addressed in the 21st century. Copeland’s words were hurtful. He was unapologetic and even proud of having slurred the president of the United States.

While there is not much that any of us can do to stop idiots like Copeland from expressing their bigoted and racial hatred towards minority groups, we can mirror the actions of the majority of the townspeople of Wolfeboro, who insisted that Copeland resign.

The actions of Wolfeboro’s white citizens signal that racial insensitivity will not be tolerated. It is a good sign when members of the majority community stand up against racial bigotry. I applaud the good people of Wolfeboro for exercising good citizenship principals in light of the police commissioner’s hurtful and insensitive language.

Harold Michael Harvey, JD, is the author of the legal thriller “Paper Puzzle,” available at Amazon .

Allvoices is an exclusive community where great writers can connect, share their original content, gain exposure and earn money.

Our team of professional editors curates all content to make sure our readers have fresh, interesting reads everyday.

BrandSpace is a venue for our best sponsored content to be featured on Allvoices.com . PulsePoint is a leader in the content marketing space, and our stable of great content creators helps our partners reach and connect to their desired audience. BrandSpace is where that content lives.

We want to give our buyer and seller clients priority access to smarter impressions across the web so they have better targeting, better insights, and better ROI. We do this through impression-level transparency on proprietary audience, content and engagement data segments.

Our writers come from all walks of life, from full-time freelancers looking to build a larger following to desk jockeys who want to keep the creative juices flowing. Allvoices’ writers are passionate and insightful, and they have unique perspectives about a variety of subjects.
