
A senior UKIP election hopeful was caught on camera flipping the bird at a group of peaceful protesters at the weekend.

Janice Atkinson, the party's most high-ranking female politician, also told activists in Kent to 'f*** off' and said she didn't care where they posted the image.

The picture was snapped after a confrontation between Mrs Atkinson and members of the Ashford People's Assembly in Kent town and was later posted on Facebook by assembly member, Maria Pizzey.

It has now been shared more than 55,000 times.

In her post, Ms Pizzey, a member of the Green Party, said: "She told us to f*** off because we stood peacefully holding placards accusing UKIP of racist policies.

‘She made personal comments about my body size and when I told her I would quote her widely she said "I don't care where you f***ing post this, just f*** off!"

‘This is the most rude and aggressive individual I have had the misfortune to come across and she wants to represent this country in Europe.'

She added that Mrs Atkinson, UKIP's MEP South East Candidate, offered 'no debate or arguments' in defence of her party's policies.

In a later post, she said UKIP's Ashford chair, Norman Taylor, seemed uncomfortable with the confrontation.

Mrs Atkinson, who is also her party's press advisor, hit out on social media, posting an image of the protesters on her Twitter account and mocking their appearance, while also incorrectly branding them all Green activists.

She tweeted: "The attractive face of the Greens, apparently. Harassing public in Ashford today. Many complained, one to police."

In response, local activist Thom Pizzey said: "Harassing? You mean exercising free speech and freedom to protest. The only person who swore or was aggressive was yourself."

In a statement, Mrs Atkinson branded the activists a "Green rabble" and said they are the "Socialist Workers anarchy wing of the Greens."

She said: "Their views are so far left that they daren't knock on doors asking for votes.

'They were intimidating my party workers, women and elderly distinguished gentlemen, calling them racist bigots, that is unacceptable.

'The fat Green woman approached her, telling her that I was a racist bigot. She was very upset, she later told me she had complained to the police. '

It's not the first time Mrs Atkinson has risen to prominence on the campaign trail.

Last week she claimed that police raids in Kent were because of immigration and Eastern European crime gangs.

UKIP's leader, Nigel Farage, also said he r egrets making controversial remarks about Romanians suggesting he would be concerned if a group moved in next door.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
