
South Korea's coast guard tries to rescue ferry victims on April 16. More than 300 people are dead or missing.

South Korea's president said Monday that she will push to disband the coast guard in the wake of last month's ferry disaster that left more than 300 people dead or missing, calling its rescue operations after the disaster a failure.

The coast guard has been under growing public criticism over the quality of its search and rescue work after the ferry Sewol sank April 16. Most of the victims were students from a single high school near Seoul who were traveling to the southern tourist island of Jeju.

Relatives of victims of the South Korean ferry sinking stage a sit-in protest demanding a meeting with President Park Geun-hye on a street near the presidential Blue House in Seoul.

A bereaved man clutches a portrait of the daughter he lost in the ferry sinking as he joins families of other victims in a protest near the presidential house in Seoul.

In an image taken with a mobile phone by Park Su-hyeon, one of the South Korean high school students lost in the accident, and released by his father, students are shown in life vests inside the ferry before they realized it was sinking.

In video clips from the cellphone of victim Park Su-hyeon that were released by his father, teenagers unaware of the danger talk of taking selfies, wonder if they'll make the news and discuss posting about the excitement later on Facebook.

An image from the mobile phone of sinking victim Park Su-hyeon taken aboard the ferry.

"The coast guard's rescue operations were virtually a failure," President Park Geun-hye said in a nationally televised speech.

Park said she will push for legislation that would transfer the coast guard's responsibilities to the National Police Agency and a new government body she plans to establish.

Park also again apologized for the government's handling of the sinking, one of the deadliest disasters in decades in South Korea.

"The final responsibility for not properly dealing with this incident is placed on me," she said. Park has apologized over the incident at least three times.
