
Thailand's embattled government was not  consulted in advance by the military about the declaration of  martial law, but it is still in power, says the chief security  adviser to Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan.

'The caretaker government still exists with Niwattumrong as  caretaker prime minister. Everything is normal except the military  is responsible for all national security issues,' Paradon  Pattanatabut said.

Thailand's army on Tuesday declared martial law across the  crisis-gripped kingdom to restore order following months of  anti-government protests that have left 28 people dead and hundreds  wounded.

An announcement on military-run television said martial law had  been invoked 'to restore peace and order for people from all  sides', stressing that the move 'is not a coup'.

'The public do not need to panic but can still live their lives  as normal,' it added.

The imposition of martial law risks angering supporters of the  government if it is seen as tantamount to a coup.

The dismissal of prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra earlier this  month in a controversial court ruling has sent tensions soaring in  the kingdom, which has endured years of political turmoil.

Her 'Red Shirt' supporters have warned of the threat of civil  war if power is handed to an unelected leader, as demanded by the  opposition.

Anti-government protesters refuse to participate in elections  and say Yingluck's Puea Thai party administration lacks the  legitimacy to govern.

They are calling on the upper house of parliament, the Senate,  to invoke a vaguely worded clause in the constitution to remove  caretaker Prime Minister Niwattumrong and appoint a new leader.

The Election Commission said last week that a general election  scheduled for July 20 was 'no longer possible' as polls could not  be held without the support of the protesters.

An election held in February was annulled after demonstrators  blocked voting.

Soldiers on Tuesday encircled a pro-government 'Red Shirts'  protest in Bangkok, the rally leader said, after the military  declared martial law to quell months of political unrest.

'We have been surrounded by troops on all sides,' Jatuporn  Prompan told AFP.

The military is trying to convince the Red Shirts to end their  gathering, according to Paradorn Pattanatabut, chief security  adviser to Prime Minister Niwattumrong.

'The military is negotiating with the Red Shirts to disperse,'  he said.
