
(Photo : Internet Photo) A damaged factory in Binh Duong province after the anti-China riot.

The government of Vietnam showed sympathy for Taiwanese and other foreign nationals who are doing business in the country by promising help to resume their operations.

The announcement was made on Saturday evening by government officials in Hanoi saying that the protests were lodged by lawless individuals due to misunderstandings and provocation.

The chief of the Bureau for Management of Foreign Investment Do Nhat Hoang said that appropriate measures are already taken to help Taiwanese nationals engaging in business in the country. This was after the official was asked regarding Vietnam’s stand about the recent riot in the country by the representative of Taiwan in the Hanoi.

Assistant Foreign Minister Dang Minh Khoi said that the Vietnamese government has remained a clear position regarding the anti-China riots held earlier last week. He also stated that the country has been dependent on investments from China, Taiwan and other countries.

Meanwhile, Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyan Tan Dung has sent out four orders. These orders included allowing the government offices to get back the social order in the country, a peaceful investment environment and ensure the safety of all foreign investors in the country.

Last week, an anti-China riot was lodged killing two Chinese nationals and injuring 100 others. Vietnamese nationals were angered after China deployed an oil drilling venture in a disputed area in the South China Sea which was claimed by Hanoi but administered by China.

The assistant foreign minister also acknowledged that the anti-China protests were very serious and has caused business losses and affected the production of foreign companies in Vietnam. He also added that the violent protest has affected the daily life of Vietnamese nationals along with foreigners in the country and has stirred the investment climate and image of Vietnam.

However, despite the assurance, China has already evacuated about 3,500 nationals from Vietnam by boat.
