
The incident occurred last week in Terenure in Dublin.

GARDAÍ ARRESTED A 41-year-old man today in connection with a carjacking last week.

This evening, they said that the man will appear in court tomorrow morning charged in relation to the hijacking and robbery.

The man claimed to have a weapon, and forced the woman to drive to her home, retrieve bank cards, and withdraw cash.

He then forced her to drive the car to Portobello at which point he left the car, gardaí say.

No one was injured in the incident.

A teenager appeared before the Dublin Children’s Court this morning charged in relation with a separate hijacking of a taxi in Terenure on Sunday.

Last week, a heavily pregnant woman was injured in a carjacking near Mountjoy Square.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Man charged over car hijacked last week with two children inside”.

Feedback on “Man charged over car hijacked last week with two children inside”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
