
Missouri plans to kill a convicted murderer Wednesday, but his health and the state's secrecy about lethal-injection procedures raise serious constitutional issues.

Aside from the fact that he is likely to be executed early Wednesday in Missouri, Russell Bucklew is arguably the right man at the right time and place. For at least a few more days, he is a living, breathing, exquisitely damaged symbol of the most contentious issue in capital punishment today: the relentless push by officials in death-penalty states to keep secret key information about the lethal drugs they intend to use on condemned prisoners.

Bucklew's serious health problems guarantee that his execution will be far more complicated than most that have occurred recently during this season of discontent over injection procedures. That grim fact (and the botched execution last month in Oklahoma) have put pressure on officials in a state notorious lately for hiding its execution procedures from public view. And, to add to that pressure, several news organizations last week filed two  First Amendment lawsuits seeking more basic information from Missouri's executioners.

The litigation to make Missouri's death-penalty more transparent and hold officials more accountable won't spare Bucklew or any other death row inmates scheduled to be executed in the state anytime soon. And neither the state courts nor the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, with primary federal jurisdiction over the state, have shown any inclination to stop recent executions or otherwise require officials to reveal more about the drugs they wish to use or how they are procured.

But if Bucklew's execution goes badly— his lawyers want it videotaped for evidence —the furor could dwarf the uproar over Clayton Lockett's execution. More than their Oklahoma counterparts, Missouri officials have been warned that they may be proceeding dangerously and unlawfully by using new injection protocols against a person whose medical condition makes him particularly vulnerable to the process—and, worse, that they are doing so without affording Bucklew's attorneys or the courts the opportunity to meaningfully review those procedures.

Like Lockett, and like others who have been executed recently under a cloud of state secrecy , Bucklew is not an innocent man. In March 1996, he murdered a man named Michael Sanders in front of Sanders's 6-year-old son and then kidnapped and raped the woman who had been living with Sanders, a woman who, not incidentally, was Bucklew's ex-girlfriend. Then there was a car chase and a shootout with the cops. It didn't take long for a jury to sentence Bucklew to death.

But Bucklew today is very sick. According to the testimony of Dr. Joel Zivot, a defense expert witness in the case, Bucklew "has a tumor growing in his face, occupying the nose, throat, and airway passages and causing him to experience constant facial pain and pressure as well as constant difficultly breathing." The congenital cavernous hemangioma, the doctor asserts , "results in a significant and dangerous compromise" of Bucklew's airways.

Based upon my review of Mr. Bucklew's medical records, it is my opinion that a a substantial risk exists that, during the execution, Mr. Bucklew will suffer from extreme or excruciating pain as a result of hemorrhaging or abnormal circulation of the lethal drug, leading to a prolonged execution.

In examining the inside of his mouth and throat, I noted a very large vascular mass. The mass arises through the hard palate, extends into the upper maxilla on the right, and fully encompasses the uvula and distorts the anatomy of Mr. Bucklew’s airway. Mr. Bucklew’s airway is severely compromised or obstructed due to the hemangiomas. It is also friable, meaning it is weak and could tear or rupture. If you touch it, it bleeds.

Bucklew's attorneys don't argue that he shouldn't be executed. They argue instead that he cannot be executed without being subject to "cruel and unusual punishment" so long as he has his tumor, Missouri does not adequately treat him for it, and the state insists upon using drug combinations likely to exacerbate Bucklew's condition. All death is painful, his lawyers say, but in this instance excessive pain—unconstitutional pain—can be avoided.

Andrew Cohen is a contributing editor at The Atlantic. He is a legal analyst for 60 Minutes and CBS Radio News, and a fellow at the Brennan Center for Justice .

After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register.
