
Kenya: President Uhuru Kenyatta last week led his Cabinet Secretaries in making directives, which skirted the lines of illegality and betrayed the government’s impatience with contrary public opinion.

The Government issued several directives, arguably with the best of intentions, but the means of executing them smacked of ‘executive arrogance’ according to an analyst. The President led the charge by directing Treasury to pay Sh1.4 billion to two firms involved in the Anglo Leasing scandal against opposition from the general public.

Â He also presided over the re-branding of the old Provincial Administration in which he paraded new county commanders with ‘executive powers’. Government also committed itself to a security deal worth Sh15 billion with Safaricom company, raising questions over due process in public procurement.

Â A Cabinet Secretary replaced the director of the National Youth Service, prompting complaints from a section of the coalition government. Furthermore, appointment of the new director sparked debate in social media about Jubilee’s promise to run a government that is representative of the face of Kenya. Meanwhile another Cabinet Secretary lent his support to an unpopular and illegal edict issued by Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo.

“The way the Government is running its affairs smacks of executive hubris. “It is saying ‘it doesn’t matter what you say, we will have our way’,” said anti-graft crusader John Githongo. This so-what approach to governance issues requiring political consensus and proper communication, he said, might lead to unnecessary antagonism. These announcements were preceded by a surprise charm offensive of a media the Jubilee government has lampooned since coming to office a year ago.

When the Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich declared the government’s intention to pay the Anglo Leasing firms, there was outrage from both sides of the political divide.

Deputy President William Ruto then stated in public that the money will only be paid out to the shadowy companies after Parliament’s approval. A meeting between the CS and Jubilee MPs to seek a common ground on the matter ended up in disarray after the URP lawmakers stridently opposed the payments.

Perhaps sensing the unpopularity of the move both in Parliament and in the court of public opinion, President Uhuru ordered Treasury to pay the money.

By so doing, the President committed the country to paying billions of shillings, which a few years ago, in his capacity as the chairman of the parliamentary Public Accounts Committee, he had recommended not to be paid.
