
Safaricom chief executive Bob Collymore who has proven to be such an outstanding wealth creator for his shareholders and whose more than 50 per cent year on year dividend increase [which remains the loudest signal in the earnings release] is surely resonating around the world, has a dash-board that sits on his personal computer. At the first level, it has a colour scheme where green is good and red is bad. You can drill into what is driving the dash-board. It is a real time computer algorithm.

Now put yourself in front of that dash-board and lets start reading it.

Ambassador Robert Godec said additional police are already patrolling around the embassy and that more assets will arrive from Washington next week.

"Unfortunately, the security situation in Kenya, especially in Nairobi and Mombasa, continues to worsen. Since the tragic events of Westgate in September 2013, the number of attacks, threats, and warnings is deeply concerning," Godec's letter said [source @jstraziuso AP]. The dash-board is telling us that the frequency and the intensity of attacks is spiking.  Subsequent to that letter, twin improvised explosive devices exploded in Gikomba, Nairobi killing 10 people and wounding more than 70.

Nairobi is the largest US diplomatic facility in East Africa and the embassy has about 1,300 employees or more inside it on any given day. Godec said he is reducing the embassy's "overall footprint" in Kenya by reducing the number of Americans stationed in Nairobi. If Nairobi represents close to 50 per cent of Kenya's GDP, then the Muthaiga/Gigiri economy surely represents up to a quarter of that 50 per cent.

The Muthaiga/Gigiri Economy is flashing red on the dash-board.

One of my friends from Mombasa called me Thursday and tells me ''They are evacuating my guests.''

Tourism is one of the pillars [more than a $1b Pillar] of our economy. I will recall the President who described Tourism as ''being on its knees.'' It is capitulated now. Mombasa was already a tinderbox and a full blown recession is lighting a match next to that tinderbox.

Don DeLillo writes in Point Omega;

I embraced social media in 2009. And it has become quite a passion and even a business now. We scan the real time and measure, sometimes try and shape but we are measuring responses to brands across the continent.  There is an enormous conversation and hullabaloo going on and we search this for signals. And the signal is very loud and clear and unanimous. We are being spun ''an epic poem, the bedtime story.'' Disbelief can be suspended, of course but eventually we reach a Marx Brothers in duck soup moment.

''Well, who you gonna believe, me or your own eyes?''

And if you mine social media like I do, you will know that duck soup moment was crossed during Westgate. And continuing resolutely down this path is eroding political capital.

“Look at the world around you. It may seem like an immovable, implacable place. It is not, with the slightest push - in just the right place - it can be tipped.” Malcolm Gladwell.

Everything is looking extremely fragile.

Aly-Khan has been an active Investor at the Nairobi Stock Exchange, The USE and various other African Stock markets. He arrived in Nairobi in August 2006 and published his book "Anyone Can Be Rich" based on the NSE and the Kenyan Economy.
