
Badagry (Lagos) - Mr Garba Mohammed, National President of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), at weekend urged women journalists in the country to discharge their duties without fear.

Mohammed made the call in an interview with newsmen in Badagry, on the sideline of the triennial delegates conference of Nigerian Association Of Women Journalists (NAWOJ).

He said that women journalits should not feel inferior in anyway to their male counterparts, adding that they should aspire to distinguish themselves in all aspects of the profession.

Mohammed said that women journalists have proved to be very capable in handling complex issues in the profession.

“Nigerian women in the field of journalism have demonstrated high level of commitment in the course of discharging their duties.

Mohammed said women were a strong force to be reckoned with in all aspects of life, including home management.

The president assured that the NUJ was working to ensure the implementation of enhanced salary scale for journalists in the country.

He said that the committee for the review of the salary scale for journalists would meet next week with the Minister of Labour and Productivity.

He said that its implementation would start with Federal Government owned media houses, before those in the private and state owned media organisations.

Earlier, at the opening of the conference, NAWOJ National President, Asabe Nahaya, said that women should disregard any distraction that would derail their goal of achieving a better Nigeria.

She said that the theme of the conference “Career Women as Mothers and Nation Builders” was carefully chosen to reflect the importance of women at home and in office management.

The immediate past NAWOJ president said that peace, love and unity remained the tool for sustainabile growth, development and unity in the country.

“I want to beg NAWOJIANS to fight to maintain peace with everyone they come in contact with in the course of doing their work.

‘’I want NAWOJIANS to cherish friendship and nurture it to yield results that would make Nigeria great.

‘’As women, we should have roomy heart to accommodate people that do not agree with our principles,’’ she said.

President Goodluck Jonathan was represented by Alhaji Garba Bello, while Lagos State Governor, Mr Babatunde Fashola, was represented by Alhaji Lai Monhammed.
