
The bully is China and the  ASEAN should NOT succumb to oppressors.

No way can China escape the tag as a backstreet bully- using her military and economic advances might  intimidate her ASEAN neighbors by claiming 90% of the 3.5 million square-kilometer South China Sea. A village idiot had said that if the 1.2 billion Chinese simultaneously pissed, the Philippines will be swamped with a tidal wave.

China had insisted they prefer a bilateral settlement of the conflicts along the South China Sea -but with their might, they will be negotiating from an obvious  position of strength. ASEAN nations, being smaller, should go to international arbiters of justice or find “unity in strength”, acting together as one.

It is best for China not to take the ASEAN, which is geared for an ASEAN integration by 2015, forgranted.  By then, it is hoped that the 10 nations will be  a common production base, peopled by 600 million consumers and a combined GDP of US $ 1.9Trillion.

In 2012 total trade between China and the ASEAN reached US $443M, aimed to reach US $500M by 2015. Together it will stand, separated, it will fall.

Last week at Myanmar, the ASEAN made a strong, unified declaration called  theRealization of the   Declaration of Conduct of Parties  in South China Sea stating that the resolution of the conflicts should be governed by universally recognized international laws, including the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS) and to show restraint and the “non-use of force”.

China’s aggressive “air defense identification”, the creation of oil rigs (through the China National Offshore Corporation), presence of scores of vessels” represent what they term as restriction of freedom of navigation in the one of the busiest sea lanes in the world. China would hear none of the complaints referring to the 1992 approved  Declaration of Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea.

But Indonesian president Sumilo Banbang Yuchoyono was vocal in condemning China’s “gunboat diplomacy”. Such has been described as  a conspicuous display of naval power to pursue foreign policy objectives implying direct threats of warfare if the terms of the agreement are not agreeable to the superior force.

After the Chinese set up oil rigs 120 miles off the shores of Vietnam, the latter’s ships have rammed some of the Chinese  vessels, because the Vietnamese, survivors of a brutal war with the USA, proudly thumped their chests : “The Chinese have invasion in their blood; resistance is in our blood”.

That sounds like a clear-cut retort laced with violence in between the lines.

Malaysia had had skirmishes with the Chinese before as the Philippines had various incidents in the Ayungin, Kalayaan, Scarborough, Mabini Reef and the Goloc oil contract area. Last week the Philippines charged 9 of the 11 Chinese fishermen caught poaching 500 endangered turtles in RP territory called Hasa Hasa Shoal.

Rightfully, President Noy Aquino had called Chinese moves in the disputed area as “dangerous brinkmanship”. We can be proud of our president being able to stand up to the aggression  of a power state like the Great Wall.

The United States of America, is taking advantage of the growing unpopularity of China in the ASEAN by taking a more pro-active stance in strengthening or creating new military alliances in the region.   China, of course, asks the US to “back off and not meddle”.

We are sure that even if not stated as such, the recent visit of US president Barrack Obama to the Palace is nothing more than to provide some kind of deterrent to China’s power play in the region. He has stated so that “an ally attacked will not go unprotected” by the  US government.

There is the old Mutual Defense Treaty between the USA and RP and buttressed by the recently signed EDCA (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Act). The war games will also continue.

The military aspect of this chess game in the region has been covered by USA’s unadulterated commitment to keep peace in the region -as the world’s most powerful nation.

On the economic side, ASEAN  should roll their sleeves and forge an economic offense or defense aimed at China to deter the latter’s obvious disregard for other’s sovereign rights in the Asian waters.

ASEAN must remember, we cannot be bullied against our will.

The economic sledgehammer is something China is afraid of. Its internal growth is slowing and to isolate herself from international trade and investments by over-aggressive imperialism at sea is not consistent with the old Chinese phrase: there is no prosperity in anger.

ASEAN as a united power bloc should let action now do the talking. Only then can we hope that China will blink, the giant is aggressive,true, but she is not stupid.
