
FNM SENATOR JOHN Bostwick is in police custody after he was found with a quantity of ammunition at the Grand Bahama International Airport on Saturday.

According to reports, Bostwick was in the domestic section of the airport when, during a routine check, airport security discovered a quantity of ammunition in his luggage.

A police statement said that at around 7:20pm on Saturday, the X-ray machine security officer noticed a suspicious object in the bag carried by the 42-year-old and alerted the police at the airport.

The officers checked the bag and reportedly found ten rounds of .22 ammunition.

The Senator was taken into custody and flown to Nassau yesterday, where he is being held at the Central Detective Unit. He is expected to be charged in connection with the incident.

“The FNM has learned of the troubling allegation involving Senator John Bostwick in Freeport, Grand Bahama, last evening. The prayers of the party go out to the Bostwick family  during this distressing hour,” the statement read.

Mr Bostwick was sworn in as Senator in February 2013. He was the FNM’s pick to replace Zhivargo Laing after his resignation on December 31, 2012.

He is the son of former opposition Leader J Henry Bostwick, QC, and former Minister of Foreign Affairs and Attorney General Janet Bostwick, the first woman to be elected to the House of Assembly.

Mr Bostwick was also the FNM’s Bain and Grants Town candidate during the May 2012 general election, but lost to National Security Minister Dr Bernard Nottage and DNA hopeful Rodney Moncur.

He is also the author of “Bahamas 20/20 Vision,” a 20-year national plan for the country.

Earlier this month, FNM chairman, Darron Cash’s home was raided by CDU officers as a part of an investigation into leaked files at the Bank of the Bahamas.

Officers seized two laptops and a smart cellular phone, the property of Mr Cash, during the search of his home.

Two days later, attorney Carl Bethel, on behalf of Mr Cash filed a constitutional motion in the Supreme Court, arguing that Cash’s rights had been violated. Last week an amicable agreement was struck in the Court.

The Free National Movement has branded the search of Cash’s home as a witch hunt.

READ ABOUT IT HERE!

The documents don’t spell out how the NSA has been able to tap the phone calls of an entire country. But one memo indicates that SOMALGET data is covertly acquired under the auspices of “lawful intercepts” made through Drug Enforcement Administration “accesses”– legal wiretaps of foreign phone networks that the DEA requests as part of international law enforcement cooperation.

When U.S. drug agents need to tap a phone of a suspected drug kingpin in another country, they call up their counterparts and ask them set up an intercept. To facilitate those taps, many nations – including the Bahamas – have hired contractors who install and maintain so-called lawful intercept equipment on their telecommunications.

At least this time the FNM"S Dr Sand  as in the Darron Cash situation is not talking foolishness  Gestapo like . Dr. Minnis "Democracy under siege" And others Witch hunt, Mr. Carl Bethel said in not so many words The Police has done nothing wrong. They should all apologise to the Police.

And their Papa with his holograms story. I Suppose they have not had enough time to make up their lies as yet. After all we all know PLP's are bad people and FNM's are saints. according to them. But right thinking  people know different. I trust they will deal with this young man, the same way they deal with persons from Farm Road.

Across the inky-blue Gulf Stream from Florida, near the sheer edge of the Great Bahama Bank, a new island is emerging from the sea. Although it bears the appealing name Ocean Cay, this new island is not, and never will be, a palm-fringed paradise of the sort the Bahamian government promotes in travel ads. No brace of love doves would ever choose Ocean Cay for a honeymoon; no beauty in a brief bikini would waste her sweetness on such desert air. Of all the 3,000 islands and islets and cays in the Bahamas, Ocean Cay is the least lovely. It is a flat, roughly rectangular island which, when completed, will be 200 acres and will resemble a barren swatch of the Sahara. Ocean Cay does not need allure. It is being dredged up from the seabed by the Dillingham Corporation of Hawaii for an explicit purpose that will surely repel more tourists than it will attract. In simplest terms, Ocean Cay is a big sandpile on which the Dillingham Corporation will pile more sand that it will subsequently sell on the U.S. mainland. The sand that Dillingham is dredging is a specific form of calcium carbonate called aragonite, which is used primarily in the manufacture of cement and as a soil neutralizer. For the past 5,000 years or so, with the flood of the tide, waters from the deep have moved over the Bahamian shallows, usually warming them in the process so that some of the calcium carbonate in solution precipitated out. As a consequence, today along edges of the Great Bahama Bank there are broad drifts, long bars and curving barchans of pure aragonite. Limestone, the prime source of calcium carbonate, must be quarried, crushed and recrushed, and in some instances refined before it can be utilized. By contrast, the aragonite of the Bahamian shallows is loose and shifty stuff, easily sucked up by a hydraulic dredge from a depth of one or two fathoms. The largest granules in the Bahamian drifts are little more than a millimeter in diameter. Because of its fineness and purity, the Bahamian aragonite can be used, agriculturally or industrially, without much fuss and bother. It is a unique endowment. There are similar aragonite drifts scattered here and there in the warm shallows of the world, but nowhere as abundantly as in the Bahamas. In exchange for royalties, the Dillingham Corporation has exclusive rights in four Bahamian areas totaling 8,235 square miles. In these areas there are about four billion cubic yards—roughly 7.5 billion long tons—of aragonite. At rock-bottom price the whole deposit is worth more than $15 billion. An experienced dredging company like Dillingham should be able to suck up 10 million tons a year, which will net the Bahamian government an annual royalty of about $600,000.
