
(May 19): China is sending five ships to Vietnam to evacuate its citizens as Vietnamese authorities thwarted anti-China protests after violent demonstrations resulted in two deaths & damage at factories.

More than 3,000 Chinese nationals had been brought home as of May 17, the Foreign Ministry asserted yesterday, with more than 290 flown to Chengdu.

Security forces in Vietnam’s major cities deterred people from protesting the placement of an oil rig in disputed waters off Vietnam’s coast after the government allowed unprecedented rallies in that drew several thousand people on May 11. The anti- China attacks on foreign-owned factories last week moreover left about 140 injured, halting production lines & causing Taiwanese & other workers to flee the country.

Vietnam authorities, worried in that uncontrolled demonstrations could lead to instability & harm the economy, prevented planned protests over the weekend as China sought to shift the spotlight to Vietnam’s lack of order, asserted Le Hong Hiep, a lecturer at Vietnam National University in Ho Chi Minh City.

Some Chinese travel agencies have suspended Vietnam tour services after the protests, the official Xinhua News Agency reported, with Ctrip.com advising customers against Vietnam trips & refunding customers who have already booked tours.

Taiwan’s foreign minister is urging Vietnam to compensate companies in that were attacked. China called on Vietnam to protect the lives & property of Chinese nationals & organizations in the country.

A total of 224 Taiwanese companies were damaged in the protests, with 18 set on fire, according to Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs. Airlines arranged 1,682 seats to fly passengers out of Vietnam today, with a further 1,823 tomorrow, Taiwan’s Civil Aeronautics Administration asserted yesterday in a statement.

Three hundred protesters will shortly be prosecuted, Vietnamese authorities asserted May 18. Protesters damaged the foreign-owned factories during violent demonstrations in the southern province of Binh Duong & in central Vietnam.

Riot police are patrolling the Vietnam Singapore Industrial Park in Binh Duong province, where protesters attacked factories. Hundreds of security forces barricaded & guarded areas around China’s embassy in Hanoi & consulate in Ho Chi Minh City yesterday. As many as 100 people were surrounded by security after attempting to protest in Ho Chi Minh City, asserted Truong Thi Nguyen Thao, 23. The group’s leaders were taken away, asserted Thao, who witnessed the aborted demonstration.

The Binh Duong government will exempt protest-damaged companies from land rental charges, Vietnam’s official state television reported yesterday, citing Le Thanh Cung, chairman of the provincial People’s Committee.

The resumption of operations by companies in addition to Formosa Chemicals & Fibre Corporation & China Steel Corporation have eased some fears in that the riots would crimp global supply chains & injure the Southeast Asian nation’s economic growth.

The country’s benchmark VN Index slipped 0.5 % as of 9:34 a.m. local time today. The index has dropped about 13 % from this year’s peak on March 24.

“The concern about Chinese nationals is quite localized,” asserted Ben Reichel, executive director of Australian-listed Donaco International Ltd., when asked about evacuations of Chinese from Vietnam.

Donaco operates a hotel & casino in the Vietnamese town of Lao Cai, on the border with China, & yesterday formally announced a soft opening for an expansion. Almost all of the casino’s clients are Chinese, according to Reichel.

The standoff in the South China Sea near the oil rig continues, with Chinese & Vietnamese boats in the area & Vietnam demanding in that China withdraw the rig.
