
Despite positive developments, Burma/Myanmar's reforms remain fragile and reversible, and risks to investors remain high. The military retains significant power and conflict is ongoing in Rakhine state, Kachin state and elsewhere. Land confiscation, bribery and human rights abuses including persecution of the Rohingya Muslim minority continue.

The need for information and analysis of corporate activity in Burma/Myanmar has only increased with the lifting of sanctions. Those who continue to avoid investment in Burma/Myanmar and those seeking to invest responsibly in the country will need research to identify corporate involvement and to assess corporate policies, systems and reporting.

The release of the Briefing Paper coincides with the anniversary of the U.S. Government’s Burma Responsible Investment Reporting Requirements taking effect. The Reporting Requirements mandate U.S. corporations making new investments of $500,000 or more in Burma to report on their operations, policies, procedures and impacts.

The Reporting Requirements will remain in effect only as long as the U.S. Government’s national emergency with respect to Burma continues. Last week, EIRIS Conflict Risk Network sent a letter to President Barack Obama recommending renewal of the national emergency. On May 15, President Obama issued the Executive Order continuing the national emergency for one year.

The Briefing Paper also introduces Investment Watch: Burma/Myanmar , a new service designed to help investors make sound judgments about how companies are managing the risks related to doing business in the conflict-affected country.

Please consider  Paying What You Can to help PCDN grow. We encourage you to consider any amount from $1 and up. Read the SUPPORT page prior to making a payment to see PCDN's impact and how your payment will help.

By using this site you're agreeing to the terms of use as outlined in the community guidelines (in particular PCDN is an open network indexed by Google and users should review the privacy options). Please note individual requests for funding or jobs are NOT permitted on the network.
