
Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein has said Putrajaya will seek to discuss with British satellite firm Inmarsat over the public release of the flight’s raw data, in what can be described as a move to ease tensions between families of those aboard the missing flight and Malaysian search officials.

The acting transport minister yesterday said in a statement this was done in light of the recent demands by the next-of-kin for the Inmarsat “raw data”.

“This is consistent with our stand for greater transparency and prioritising the interests of the family members of those on board MH370,” Hishammuddin (pic) said.

CNN reported last Friday that Inmarsat refuted Putrajaya’s remarks that it had yet to release its raw data, saying that it had submitted all information to investigators leading the search.

Bernama reported yesterday the Chinese next-of-kin of passengers on board the missing aircraft had suggested that the Malaysian authorities purchase the raw data from Inmarsat.

One of the relatives suggested the purchased data could be shared and made available globally so that it could be analysed by aviation experts.

The Malaysian Insider also reported on May 9, 2014, that families of passengers, calling themselves Voice370, have called on Malaysia, China and Australia to reanalyse and release previous satellite data and any information on flight MH370.

Hishammuddin said that a team of technical experts had convened in Canberra to discuss and refine the satellite data, calculations and analysis which have been made available by Inmarsat.

The hunt for the missing Boeing 777 aircraft has entered the tenth week since its disappearance on March 8.

The plane with 239 people aboard including 12 crew members vanished on March 8 while en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight is now focused underwater.

Hishammuddin said a team of hydrographic experts from Malaysia, China and Australia had agreed to conduct an extensive bathymetric survey in the southern Indian Ocean.

In a statement issued by Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Centre yesterday, Chinese, Australian and Malaysian authorities agreed that the Chinese ship Zhu Kezhen will conduct a bathymetric survey of the Indian Ocean floor as directed by Australian air crash investigators.

The ship will sail for the survey area on Wednesday, weather permitting.

After an initial air and seabed search failed to find any trace of the plane, authorities this month announced a new phase of the search would be conducted over a vastly expanded area of seabed measuring 60,000 sq km.

The new phase also involves mapping the seabed, where depths and topography are often unknown. – May 20, 2014.
