
I always knew it was possible to fool the American financial system. But I never realized just how easy it was.

Last week, in a federal court in Trenton, N.J., Khawaja Ikram became the ninth person to plead guilty for his involvement in a gigantic credit card fraud case that netted more than $200 million.

I was so intrigued I had a look at the documents that the Federal Bureau of Investigation submitted to the courts relating to the case.

What I found: Stealing a fortune from the big banks was a piece of cake. It was so easy it makes you wonder why any robbers bother putting on a face mask and running in the front door waving a gun. Apparently all you really need is a laptop and a mail drop.

Landslides diverted attention of rescuers in Serbia on Monday after the worst recorded flood hit the Balkans, resulting in dozens of casualties and forcing thousands to evacuate.

These guys stole “hundreds of millions of dollars,” according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. They spent the money on luxury cars, expensive clothes, gadgets, and even spa treatments. They also stockpiled millions of dollars in gold bullion and large amounts of cash.

So how did they do it? Apparently it was a simple three-step process.

The first was to create a fake identity. I had assumed this involved contact with criminal enterprises, faked documents, all the other stuff we associate with gangsters. And often it did. But there was also a simple mechanism. You know your credit-card company often asks you if you want to add an “authorized user”? They did.

They would make up a fake person and add him or her as an authorized user on their card. And, hey presto, the dumb credit-scoring machines would start creating records for that person.

So long as they didn’t try to use a Social Security number already in use, there was no problem. The fake person came into being on some server somewhere.

And once that fictitious user existed, they just started apply for lots more credit cards in that person’s name. Ka-ching!

The second step was to pump up that user’s credit score. Now, the credit-scoring system is almost designed to be gamed. It pays little or no attention to things that you might imagine it would - like your income and assets and so on — and looks mostly at whether you pay off your bill on time. That’s it.

So once these guys had the credit cards for their fictitious person, they would use them to make small purchases, and then paid off the bill on time. Easy.

Making things even simpler, they started out by applying for credit cards with small limits. Those were easier to get. But as they kept buying candy and hamburgers with the cards and then paying it off, the computer systems got more and more impressed and pumped up their score, while raising their limits. Ka-ching!

At this point they could have used these cards to go on a shopping spree, but instead these guys did something clever. They set up sham companies, and then just applied to the credit card companies for card terminals — like the ones you see in any convenience store — so that these companies’ “customers” could pay by card.

And once they got those terminals, they used the cards to go “shopping.” They bought a fortune at these fake companies, the information went through to the card companies, and the card companies deposited the money in these sham companies’ bank accounts.

Ka-ching! Ka-ching! Ka-ching!

We’re talking hundreds of millions of dollars.

Now in this particular instance, the people involved ran a racket so huge they were bound to get caught in the end. They faked thousands of identities. They ran a scam across eight different countries, from the U.S. to Pakistan to Romania to Japan. And, most foolishly of all, they hung around waiting to get caught.

But I’ll bet there are people out there doing this on a low level scale, stealing maybe $5 million, and then vanishing into the ether.

Easy.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
