
Last week at the dedication to the 9/11 Memorial Museum, President Obama saluted Welles Crowther, who perished along with 2,605 others at New York’s World Trade Center towers — 2,996 in total died — on that fateful day. Before that happened, Crowther became a hero, putting on his trademark red bandana and saving many others — at least a dozen — repeatedly leaving the building with the injured and then going back inside to assist some more until the structure collapsed.

Crowther was a 24-year-old equities trader at Sandler O’Neill and Partners on the south tower’s 104th floor, and native Peorian Chip Chan was a 23-year-old bond trader for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 105th floor of the north tower. We don’t know if they knew each other, ever crossed paths or even glimpsed each other looking outside their office windows.

What we do know is that two exceedingly promising young men with a bit in common died too soon that day, and that the names and the memories of both live on in that museum and in the hearts of those who loved them and many others who were touched in an uncommon way by someone else’s tragedy.

And it’s not always the case that history can be commemorated on the very site where it occurred. Indeed, the museum sits on the footprint of the twin towers, right at Ground Zero. It descends seven stories from ground level to bedrock, from light into darkness, right down to the slurry wall that holds back the Hudson River and that cracked but held even under the onslaught of two of the world’s tallest buildings falling into it. It is a symbol of resilience — of New York, of this nation.

In every one of the more than 10,000 artifacts in the museum’s collection — a shoe, eyeglasses, a billfold with credit card and coupons therein, a responding fire engine, recordings of final phone calls — there is a story, and often a heartbreaking one. We haven’t been there yet, of course, but we’d imagine there is a mournful, respectful silence to the place, unbroken except for the occasional sob of someone touched by what they see there.

Page 2 of 2 - It was necessarily a long time in the making, given not just the logistics of clearing the site first and the must-make-a-statement architecture but the countless decisions — what to put in, what to leave out — to achieve just the right balance of content and tone for casual visitors and directly affected family members alike. We’re not sure that was possible, though if the early reviews are any indication, perhaps they got about as close as they could.

Indeed, this is a museum that is obliged to tell the story — including of al-Qaida, which it must if it is to be honest — but it’s also a tourist attraction that charges an admission fee and, perhaps more than anything else, a tomb, a shrine, a piece of sacred ground. Some 14,000 unidentified remains reside here, if unseen by the public. Let’s face it, to some degree those missions are in conflict. There is a private room for the 9/11 families themselves. Reliving the painful events of that day — “powerful as a punch to the gut,” the New York Times called it  — may not be easy for some. It may arouse anger. We hope that it makes a value judgment, that it distinguishes good from evil.

We trust that, all in all, it is an enormously moving experience that memorializes, educates, that hopefully heals in a way, that inspires in the knowledge that no matter the wallop, we rebuild and we endure. It’s a tall order.

So much has happened since the day that “changed everything” — mastermind Osama bin Laden is dead, its architects and co-conspirators captured and locked up, the last of the two wars it spawned winding down — that it seems like forever ago, and yet it’s almost like yesterday, too. One wall reportedly has an engraved quote from Virgil: “No Day Shall Erase You From the Memory of Time.” That’s true now nearly 13 years later, it likely will be true for as long as those of us who saw it may live, and may it be true for succeeding generations.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
