
The July 2002 letter Tony Blair wrote to George W. Bush promising ‘we’re with you whatever’ — nine months before the invasion of Iraq — is now  missing, according to a news report. How inconvenient.

Sir John Chilcot’s report into how the disastrous war got under way has been delayed for years because Blair refused to authorise the publication of his letters and conversations  with Bush.

Last week, the Prime Minister, David Cameron, said Chilcot’s findings should be published this year — i.e., before the 2015 General Election, handily reminding voters of  New Labour’s controversial support for Bush.

Letters between our Prime Ministers and U.S. presidents do not go missing as a rule. If this one can’t be found, we’re entitled to suspect that its disappearance is deliberate.

Blair doesn’t want his palsy, private relationship with Bush exposed to public scrutiny. Neither do Whitehall officials who were involved.

Transparency in government is always supported in theory, but often resisted in practice.

We ought to know what Blair and Bush said to each other about Iraq. We would do if it reflected well  on them.

So what is being hidden from us? Surely it’s the Bush/Blair misjudgment that bringing down Iraq’s Saddam Hussein would bring peace and stability to the Arab world.

Pretending that Saddam was responsible for the 9/11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, and had ready-to-be-launched weapons of mass destruction aimed at the West, is now seen by many of us as an act of cynical opportunism. But the Chilcot report is unlikely to come to so harsh a conclusion. It’s not a court of law. There’s no suggestion Blair will be branded a reckless warmonger and prosecuted. Not in this country, anyway.

The dry-as-dust purpose of Chilcot is merely to examine the government’s decision-making processes over the invasion of Iraq. I’ll be surprised if it goes much further than saying Blair should have been more cautious in his dealings with Bush.

So what if it does go beyond that? Blair has convinced himself he did the right thing. After the huge loss of blood and treasure the country has suffered, Iraq is no better now than it was under Saddam, but Blair says otherwise.

Most of us already believe he did Bush’s bidding, but he isn’t our first Prime Minister to accommodate the needs of a U.S. president.

Cameron’s declared wish to see Chilcot published this year isn’t remarkable. He could hardly have said otherwise, but I doubt that he wants to see Blair humiliated.

Don’t forget that the Tories  were just as enthusiastic as  Blair about backing Bush. Had they been in government, they, too, would have taken us to war in Iraq  alongside America.

Backing the U.S. gives our leaders supporting-actor roles on the world stage. For Blair, this continued after he left No 10.

One of his first big jobs was with a U.S. bank. His quasi-diplomatic  status as a Middle East peace envoy was approved by America.

Blair is now big enough and rich enough to be straight with us. Chilcot should be allowed to publish the Blair letters and conversations with Bush.

We know the gist of them. Publish them and be done with it. No one’s going to buy now the line about needing to preserve discretion when the dealings of leaders are concerned.

For all his worldly success, Blair needs to make his peace with us. Admitting he was wrong about Iraq would be a start. Being seen to help Sir John Chilcot might not redeem him completely but it would help.

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have transformed their new country home, Anmer Hall, with ‘bog standard’ tiles on the roof and a conservatory which ‘jars’ with the rest of the building, says refurbishment expert Tony Passmore.

Former Baywatch star Pamela Anderson, 46, announces she was sexually assaulted by a female friend of her family when a child and raped at 12 by the 25-year-old boyfriend of a chum.

Cynics will laugh, but I wish the  old gal well, especially after the traumas of her youth. Women often go gooey over animals as they get older, but it’s better than treating them with cruelty or indifference.

What's got into cows? I don’t recall them being hostile in my youth. Now there’s a story every other day of walkers with dogs being killed by bovines.

A man of 62 out walking with his cocker spaniels in the Derbyshire Dales last week was trampled  to death.

We once got a call from the mobile of my youngest son, who had been out walking with his sister and the dog. He was up a tree and she was standing in the river with the alarmed mutt. They were being harassed by hostile cows we had to drive off  with a stick.

Dentistry has never attracted me as an occupation.

But I was surprised to read about cosmetic dentist James Hull, 53, who is selling a collection of 457 vintage motor cars estimated to be worth £100 million.

Canny, toothless farmers shopped  for second-hand dentures at junk sales, unconcerned by who’d worn them before.

‘It was really ironic that  I was doing the Lord Rennard investigation at the time,’ she says.

A.N.  Wilson's article in Saturday’s Mail about paedophilia and sadism at  boarding schools reminded me of a story I was told by the late music  critic of The Guardian, Philip Hope-Wallace, who died in 1979.

Wilson says that when you are cut off from your family aged seven, ‘you have less chance to learn how to love’.

My first Fleet Street proprietor, Lord Beaverbrook, was obsessed by the subject. He wrote a favourable biography of Jesus Christ in the hope — so disloyal employees said — of improving his chances Heaven-wise.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
