
Even though Beyonce and Jay Z are dominating what we read in the news, Nigeria is still in unrest. Residents of three northeastern Nigerian villages repelled attacks by Boko Haram militants, killing over 200 of them, CNN reports . This militant group is reponsible for the abduction of 276 Nigerian school girls who were said to have been kidnapped, forced to covert to Islam and married off to Boko Haram members. Hundreds of Boko Haram fighters stormed the villages of Menari, Tsangayari and Garawa in the ethnic Shuwa-dominated Kalabalge District last week and local villagers did all they could to fight off the attack and successfully took out hundreds of deadly Boko Haram members.

It’s being reported that gunmen arrived in dozens of all-terrain vans, armored tanks and motorcycles, but villagers quickly mobilized and engaged the attackers in a prolonged battle. “They attacked Menari and killed around 60 people and burned some homes before proceeding to Tsangayari and Garawa villages,” resident Algoni Ahunna said.

“At Tsangayari and Garawa, they met a big surprise as residents engaged them in a fierce battle in which over 200 of the Boko Haram fighters were killed. More than 150 were killed in Tsangayari,” Ahunna said.

This is the second defeat Boko Haram has suffered from locals in the area in over a month. In April, villagers attacked scores of Boko Haram members during another vicious attack against them.

Of course Boko Haram won’t take this attack lightly. Already, there’s been a suicide bombing attack in Kano, a city in northern Nigeria. According to reports, the explosion was caused by a bomb in a car in the mainly Christian area of Sabon Gari, which is an area that has previously been targeted by Boko Haram Islamist militants. The victims were three men and a 12-year-old girl. Boko Haram attacked this same city in March 2013 the same way and killed over 20 people.

Boko Haram is on a mission to overthrow the Nigeria government and create an Islamic state. They will obviously do whatever it takes to make that happen. My prayers and my heart are with the residents of Nigeria.

Like what you see? Sign up for The Michigan Chronicle's email newsletter!

Now tell your friends on Facebook that you like The Michigan Chronicle!

Like Us On Facebook!
