
Written by Scott Campbell.

Published at 18:30 on 19 May 2014.

Help Cumbernauld Media to grow and flourish; donate to help us stay online and cover the news that brings thousands to our web services each week.

Sinclair, who starred in the popular 1981 film Gregory’s Girl – which was filmed across Cumbernauld – declared his support for Scottish independence via his profile on micro-blogging website Twitter.

His declaration of support for a ‘Yes’ vote in September’s referendum came after an earlier post to his account in which he expressed disgust with the three main Westminster party leaders.

The fifty-two year old actor’s backing for the Yes camp comes at a time when the Yes side continues to increase their support in the polls.

A new ICM poll for Scotland on Sunday was yesterday (18th May) welcomed by the Yes Scotland campaign  after the result recorded support for separation at 42%, compared with the latest Panelbase poll, which put the Yes side at 46%, when undecided voters are factored out.

The Panelbase survey also showed that voters who are yet to make up their minds about which side to back are more likely to favour independence, with 52% saying they would vote Yes against 45% for No.

Welcoming the polls, Yes Scotland's chief executive, Blair Jenkins, said: "With precisely four months until the independence referendum, it is all to play for.

"The Yes movement has made big gains over the past six months, and we are confident the upward trajectory of Yes will continue through to September.

"Scotland is one of the wealthiest countries in the world - richer per head than the UK, Japan and France and the majority of developed countries.

"This referendum is about who should be taking decisions about Scotland - the people who live here, or politicians at Westminster.

"Independence means we can design a tailored economic policy that always puts job creation in Scotland first. With continued hard work, I am confident that our positive, optimistic message will win over the relentless negativity of the No campaign.

"Across all the polls that have been carried out since the start of this year, average support for Yes has been rising steadily. Of course there will be peaks and troughs in individual polls, but Scotland's direction of travel is with us as we move towards the only vote that counts on 18 September.

"With the official campaign about to get underway at the end of the month, we have built a tremendous platform of public support and grassroots organisation on which we will continue to build.

"There is a long way to go and a lot of hard work to be done. We are looking forward to that. We are confident that as more and more people engage in the debate they will see through the shallow negativity of the No campaign and seek real information about what independence will mean to them.

"The realisation will continue to grow that Scotland can, and should, be a fairer and more successful independent country, with the benefits shared by all, and the result on 18 September will reflect that."

He added: “When even the SNP’s favourite polling company Panelbase is showing the nationalists going backwards then you know they are in trouble.

"As the referendum gets closer more Scots are starting to think seriously about the big issues - like what would replace the Pound, how our pensions would be paid and what would happen to the funding for our schools and hospitals. It's no surprise that as people look at these issues in detail they are overwhelmingly rejecting separation.

“What’s clear from today’s ICM poll is that Alex Salmond has a problem with women. Scottish women have seen right through his attempts to bribe them into voting for the risk and uncertainty that separation would bring.

Cumbernauld Media’s website(s) is meant to serve as an informative portal for those wishing to obtain information in relation to Cumbernauld, whoever they are and wherever they are based.

Read full disclaimer, here .

It is the responsibility of visitors to read Cumbernauld Media's full disclaimer, and to understand the terms and conditions attached to using Cumbernauld Media's services.

All rights reserved.

© 2014, Cumbernauld Media.
