
The following is an archived video story. The text content of that video story is available below   for reference. The original video has been deleted and is no longer available.

EL PASO, Texas  Two City Council members were concerned the city may have broken state law when selecting Tommy Gonzalez as the finalist for city manager last week, but they were reassured on Monday nothing they did was illegal.

City Reps. Michiel Noe and Cortney Niland  called a special meeting Monday to address the controversy. It only lasted 17 minutes, and Noe wasnt pleased with the way it ended.

Mondays agenda, posted by Noe, read Discussion and action concerning the quality of legal advice and performance of city attorney.

But city attorney Sylvia Borunda Firth stated that any discussion other than her job performance would be illegal because it wasnt explicitly written and any talk of the city manager hiring process would have to wait until executive session at Tuesdays regular meeting.

"I thought the meeting was very unproductive, Noe said.  To come into the meeting to specifically check with our attorney to make sure the accuracy of all the advice we were given was true, accurate, correct, and could be backed up by law, and then being told we couldn't even discuss it, it was a little bit disappointing.

While Firth wouldnt discuss the search process, she did give each council member an on-the-record written response to each one of their concerns, reiterating that nothing illegal was done.

That eased city representative Cortney Nilands mind, who had her own doubts coming into the night.

She's on the record documenting and citing legal case law of why and how everything we have done up to this point was completely appropriate, Niland said."We wanted to close the doubt that the public had, there was a lot of miscommunication in the public, there were concerns that we'd handled things maybe not appropriately, we received a full legal opinion on every action we've taken this week and the reasons why everything we've done has been to the utmost integrity.

 Mayor Oscar Leeser told KFOX14 he has trusted Firth from the very beginning.

"I've been satisfied before today and I've been very up front in saying that I think Ms. Firth has given us excellent legal advice and she's a professional from the start, he said.

As KFOX14 has reported, former Irving City Manager Tommy Gonzalez was selected to be the lone finalist for the city manager position on May 8, though the City Council made the decision after deliberating behind closed doors without a public vote.

The Texas Open Meetings Act states deliberations can be done behind closed doors but any final action must be taken by a vote in public.

The city attorneys response is that the public vote will take place on Tuesday, when the City Council is expected to vote on whether or not to approve the contract it has offered Gonzalez.

The district attorneys office is in charge of enforcing the Open Meetings Act.

The DA's office tells KFOX14 it's monitoring the situation, but has no plans at the current time to begin an investigation.
