
May 19, 2014, 10:30 p.m.

HUNTER-BASED engineering group Bradken is to shed almost 500 jobs, or 10 per cent of its global workforce, in response to the downturn in the mining industry.

STILL THERE: Most of Bradken's manufacturing has been moved offshore and its biggest presence in the Hunter is at Steel River.

HUNTER-BASED engineering group Bradken is to shed almost 500 jobs, or 10 per cent of its global workforce, in response to the downturn in the mining industry.

Managing director Brian Hodges told the Newcastle Herald yesterday that most of the company's manufacturing had been moved offshore and its biggest Hunter presence was its head office at Steel River, Mayfield. Mr Hodges said there would be "some back office jobs lost" from the total of 175 at Mayfield but it was too early to put a number on them.

He said Bradken had mining services outlets at Singleton and Muswellbrook.

The Muswellbrook business had been idle for some time and the Singleton shop was "at reduced manning".

In a statement to the stock exchange, Bradken said it would cut its workforce to 4700 by July next year, 10 per cent down on its December total and 25 per cent down on its 2012 peak.

Last week, it announced it was shutting a foundry in Perth and would move the work to Brisbane and China.

Bradken was started after WWI by two BHP steelworks employees, Leslie Bradford and Jim Kendall, but the modern business took shape in 2004 after it was refloated on the stock exchange.

It makes products for the mining, rail, steelmaking, cement and energy sectors.

Mr Hodges said coal was less than 15 per cent of Bradken's business, with the Hunter coal industry just part of that.

But, coal was not the only commodity to hit a trough in the resources cycle, with iron ore, copper and gold also off their peaks.

"We are exposed to both the production side and the capital expansion [construction] side of the market, and the total market for mining is about 25 per cent off what it was at its peak," Mr Hodges said.

"If you take a really long-term view, production has always edged up but prices are erratic and we [Australia] has lost a lot of market share to other countries, with the development of mines in low-cost locations like Africa and South America.

"The other fundamental is that steaming coal (the Hunter's main product) is not the flavour of the month as an energy source with shale gas in the US making a dramatic impact on energy costs."
