
China says it has no plans to end oil operations, despite lingering tensions.

BEIJING, May 19 (UPI) -- Chinese state media reported Monday nearly 1,000 Chinese nationals were evacuated from Vietnam as a security precaution due to ongoing protests over an oil rig.

China's official Xinhua News Agency reported the first of four Chinese vessels left a Vietnamese port Monday with 989 evacuees. The Chinese government has sent four ships each with a capacity of 1,000 passengers to Vietnam to respond to ongoing anti-Chinese demonstrations.

Disputes erupted in early May when China dispatched an oil rig to waters disputed by Vietnam.

The U.S. government, which says it has no stance on territorial claims, said the Chinese action was provocative and indicative of a broader trend in the disputes Beijing has with its Asian neighbors over territory in the South China Sea.

Beijing last week said it would continue drilling for oil in the disputed area, despite anti-Chinese rioting in Vietnam.

A Chinese worker died in an attack on a Taiwanese-owned steel mill last week, and 150 people were injured as protesters attacked a Taiwanese-owned mill.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
