
Americans overwhelmingly disapprove of Obamacare. Montanans rejected Obamacare’s individual mandate at the ballot box by a 2:1 vote. It is not hard to understand why. Obamacare was crafted behind closed doors by special interest lobbyists—the pharmaceutical industry, the hospital industry, and major health insurers. The public was cut out from the process entirely. The consequences were disastrous. Thousands of Montanans had their insurance policies canceled last year and insurance premiums are skyrocketing.

Last week we learned that legislators, health care lobbyists, and the Governor’s office have been quietly gathering in secret meetings to devise a Medicaid expansion bill to be enacted by the 2015 Legislature —or even earlier if there is a special session of the Legislature. This series of non-publicized meetings, which violates both the State Constitution and Montana’s open meeting laws, are being championed by Montana’s “transparent” governor and some legislators who are actively campaigning in primary races on the government transparency bill they sponsored and the governor signed into law in 2013.

Medicaid expansion is a huge issue for the state. The decisions facing us are too big to be decided by a private group behind closed doors. The various options on how to reform the broken, existing Medicaid program to control costs on the largest budget item in the state (which must be done before we consider whether it is prudent to expand Medicaid coverage) are too big to be quickly dealt with in a special session; especially when the proposed bill has not been vetted and discussed publicly.

Governor Bullock vetoed HB 604, which would have created a legislative committee in the interim to publicly discuss and debate health care reform in Montana. Industry groups, members of the public, and legislators would have been able to offer ideas, testimony, and vet proposals in a transparent fashion. Unfortunately for Montana, the concept of discussing and debating major issues in the public appears to be foreign to Bullock and the handful of legislators toeing the lobbyist line.

Thus, we can be certain, the Medicaid expansion bill currently being quietly drafted behind closed doors will be touted as a Montana Solution — but in reality, it is a solution perhaps benefiting mainly those entities participating.

This sort of process does not work. The citizens of Montana need to have confidence that legislation brought forward is for the public benefit, not the private benefit of a group of bill sponsors, the governor whose interest is being served, or the lobbyists who wrote the bill.

Senator Debby Barrett represents Beaverhead and Madison counties in Southwest Montana. She serves as the President Pro Temp of the Montana Senate.

Copyright 2014 Montana Standard. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Midnite, There is an old saying, " I was born at night, but not last night"

Wake up, the Insurance & Pharmaceutical lobbyists are in a panic mode now that the gravy train of free money from sky rocketing premiums is coming to an end.

Ms Barrett claims that there is all this "secret" activity going on, intended to expand Medicaid eligibility in Montana, and take advantage of the worthwhile provisions in the ACA.

Governor Bullock, Democrats in the Legislature, and many of the more moderate (read: saner) Republicans in the last legislative session worked hard for that.  They openly and persuasively worked to implement the provisions that would benefit thousands of Montanans.

Governor Bullock has openly and repeatedly talked about his intention to move toward some way to accomplish that.  For crying out loud!  There's going to be an Initiative on the ballot this fall, demanding the Legislature live up to its obligations and implement that.

"SECRET"??  If this is a secret, Governor Bullock is really bad at being secretive.  And Ms Barrett appears to be remarkably out of touch with legislative activities.  And Montana voters.  The last numbers I saw reflected that over 70% of Montana voters want to see the Medicaid expansion implemented.

to "constitutionalist" . . . So in answer to my question about the existence of a "free market" you say that "today is not an example of capitalism.".

I say to you "Why did you suggest it then?" Why do you suggest as a better alternative, that which does not exist. By your own admission it doesn't exist today.

Why would you seriously tell us to resort to your plan of a free market system of competition for our medical and insurance providers when you know yourself that no such system exists. Not only does it not exist now, it has never existed before, and it will never exist in the future. A "free market" is antithetical to the capitalist system. It's impossible under capitalism, in other words.

Does that make you feel big and powerful, or something? If so, you are a real funny person, "constitutionalist'".

Ms. Barrett failed to mention that $450 million dollars has been spent on negative ads targeting the ACA.

Communists always see communism...Even I suppose when there wasn't.

Today is not an example of capitalism.

Barrett said: "Americans overwhelmingly disapprove..."

You are correct Mr. Beauchamp regarding the origin of the main ideas in the Affordable Care Act.

Oh, I'm all in favor of it "constitutionalist". I am 100% in favor of the free market. The only trouble is, there is no such thing. Nothing even comes close. Nothing ever has, and nothing ever will.

If you look at the capitalist system you will quickly see that it is the most anti-"free" market system you could devise if you tried.. The entire goal of the capitalist system is to eliminate competition. All competition. You can walk around it 3 times, and sniff it, and kick it to see if it moves, but the elimination of any competition is the ultimate goal of the capitalist system no matter what anybody says.

You just answer that one simple question honestly, and then you can tell me more about this "free market" of which you speak.

Another right wing argument from the party of "can't" and "no"- long on criticism and short on ideas except for goofy ones like privatizing public land and waterways for the benefit of a few wealthy benefactors.

Obamacare was crafted by the Heritage Foundation at the request of Bob Dole as an alternative to Hillary Clintons healthcare plan. This was done when the Republican party had a measurable degree of sanity, as compared to the present, which Barrett's op/ed demonstrates.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Contact us today!

Call us today!

Contact us today!

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Your browser does not support iframes.

Username & Password Required!
