
MS. PSAKI: Hi, everyone. I hope everyone had a great weekend. I have just one item for you at the top. We recognize the legendary Soviet-era interpreter Viktor Sukhodrev who passed away in Moscow last week at the age of 81. His career was distinguished by both his linguistic abilities and consummate professionalism. As a constant fixture during difficult discussions between the U.S. and Soviet leaders, he earned the respect of several U.S. presidents. We extend our condolences to his family, friends, and former colleagues.

Matt.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think, Matt, we can all recognize the important role he played in history.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

QUESTION: I want to start with the Justice Department’s announcement from this morning. I’ve got a couple questions about it.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

MS. PSAKI: Well, as you would expect and you predicted in your question, for specific questions related to this announcement I’d refer you to the Department of Justice. As you know, we don’t speak to extradition requests regardless. But you may have other questions on this issue. Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any level of detail on that. I can check on that and see if there’s more to share.

MS. PSAKI: We certainly would support the statements made by our DOJ colleagues, yes.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we expect the Chinese Government to understand that today’s announcement relates to the law enforcement investigation of individuals who have stolen intellectual property from U.S. businesses. It does not mean – we continue to believe – and this is relevant to us, our role here at the State Department – that we can have a constructive and productive relationship with China. We’re ready to work with China to prevent these types of activities from continuing.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I’m not sure it will play out exactly that way, Matt.

MS. PSAKI: But we do support the statements, of course, made by our DOJ colleague.

QUESTION: Working group.

MS. PSAKI: I will check and see if there’s more to say on that question, but this was a DOJ action. It is consistent with the concerns we’ve candidly raised with the Chinese Government on these issues. So today’s announcement reflects – is consistent with those growing concerns. At the same time we believe that dialogue around these issues is something that we should continue to have and we believe we can have with the Chinese.

MS. PSAKI: We do. We regret China’s decision on the suspension of activities of the working group, but we continue to believe that dialogue is an essential part of resolving these and other cyber security concerns.

MS. PSAKI: We certainly would not.

MS. PSAKI: We, again, believe that open and frank dialogue with – on these issues is the best way forward.

QUESTION: The Chinese statement says that it is – “It is a fact known to all that relevant U.S. institutions have long been involved on large scale and organized cyber theft, as well as wiretapping and surveillance activities against foreign political leaders, companies, and individuals. China is a victim of severe U.S. cyber theft, wiretapping, and surveillance activities.” It goes on.

MS. PSAKI: Well, our intelligence activities are focused on the national security interests of the United States.

MS. PSAKI: Obviously, again, we believe there should be a continuing dialogue on these issues with China which is why we’ve been so supportive of a working group.

MS. PSAKI: We collect signals intelligence exclusively where there is a foreign intelligence or counterintelligence (inaudible).

QUESTION: So in fact – so you agree with the Chinese statement on this, but you don’t agree that you have shown a – that it is – displays a lack of sincerity on your part.

MS. PSAKI: I think I have made clear we believe that while this is a DOJ action, it’s consistent with our concerns we’ve expressed.

MS. PSAKI: We do, and we certainly think there’s a broad array of issues that can be discussed.

QUESTION: Okay.

MS. PSAKI: -- we’re hopeful we’ll continue to have that discussion.

Go ahead, Jo.

MS. PSAKI: I would point you to the Department of Justice for any specifics on this particular case.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I would remind you that obviously, the S&ED is a regular meeting that we have with China, with our – the Department of Treasury and the economic counterparts in China. And there’s been a discussion about dates for several months now. So I wouldn’t relate the two, but certainly we believe that there is a robust conversation we can have about a range of issues. We regret, of course, the decision about the suspension of activities related to the cyber working group, but we continue to believe that dialogue on these important issues is the best way forward.

QUESTION: But the working group was actually launched at one of these SEDs.

MS. PSAKI: That’s true.

QUESTION: I think it was either the last year or the year before in Beijing. I don’t remember exactly which. So it’s a relatively new body that arose out of the talks that you have at this level. The fact that they’ve now suspended their participation in the cyber working group doesn’t augur very well for the outcome of S&ED talks in Beijing in July.

MS. PSAKI: Well, again, Jo – and I’m sure we’ll talk about this more as we get closer and preparatory meetings continue for the S&ED – but as you know, there’s a broad agenda that is discussed and focused on at the S&ED. We have some time here. Obviously, a discussion around cyber issues is one that we think is important in a range of formats.

MS. PSAKI: He has not been. This is a DOJ action, so – go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we have approached and we have been working with the Chinese Government over the course of the last several months on cyber issues, concerns we have about these issues. And we think that’s the best venue for moving forward.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we’ve consistently and candidly raised our concerns on this issue. Again, this is consistent with those concerns. We do believe that dialogue is an essential part of resolving these issues and moving the process forward. So we’re hopeful that that can continue.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think I would point you to what the President has said about his concerns about cyber security and cyber-crime. We remain deeply concerned about Chinese Government-sponsored cyber-enabled theft of trade secrets and other sensitive business information for commercial gain. And again, this was specific to the actions of just a few individuals, and we hope that the Chinese Government can understand that.

QUESTION: Yes.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

MS. PSAKI: We – again, this – as I’ve said a couple of times, this has been a concern we’ve consistently and candidly expressed – expressed our concerns about.

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Well, again, we remain committed to developing a constructive and productive relationship with China. We work together on a range of issues. We’re ready to work with China to prevent this activity from continuing. And we believe dialogue is the best way forward.

Go ahead, in the back.

QUESTION: As you said, you believe in dialogue, and the U.S.-China Government has been talking this.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: No. Again, this was an action by DOJ. We expect the Chinese Government to understand that today’s actions – today’s announcement, I should say, relates to a law enforcement investigation of individuals who have stolen intellectual property from U.S. businesses. But again, we’ve had an ongoing dialogue. We think that’s the right path forward, and we’re hopeful that can continue.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we never said that it would be an issue that would be resolved overnight. We think that it requires more work, more dialogue, and we’re hopeful that that can continue.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: We don’t agree that it’s not working. We believe – we regret the decision to suspend the activities of the working group, and we think that’s an effective tool.

MS. PSAKI: I didn’t put any on the table, and I’m not ruling anything out.

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: We don’t make predictions about law enforcement activities.

MS. PSAKI: I would point you to the Department of Justice. This was an announcement that the Department of Justice made. They will have the specifics for you.

QUESTION: Okay. Thanks.

MS. PSAKI: -- a Department of Justice announcement. They will see the process through. Again, what I was expressing regret about was the suspension of the dialogue.

MS. PSAKI: That these – this would never be seen through.

MS. PSAKI: We’ll let the legal process see its way through.

QUESTION: Well, if people in this government think that, then there’s a serious, serious problem. That’s not going to happen. I mean, it’s just – it’s not going to happen. And you can tell even from the – I mean, the Chinese have said take – withdraw this indictment, or it’s a mistake, or whatever. It says China launched a process with the U.S. right after this, correct its mistake and withdraw the indictment. So I think that we can all agree – I would hope, at least – that the Chinese aren’t going to turn these people over.

MS. PSAKI: Again, Matt, this is consistent with the concerns that we’ve been expressing about the – with the Chinese Government on these activities. That’s not new. I don’t think it’s new to the Chinese. But we think, obviously, a discussion about these issues is the best way forward.

MS. PSAKI: I’m happy to see if there’s more to convey.

QUESTION: And whether or not you – this building expressed any concerns about the damage that it might do, not just to the upcoming S&ED, which was just announced, but also to the broader relationship? Thanks.

MS. PSAKI: I’m happy to see if there’s more to convey.

MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to speculate on what the Department of Justice will – may or may not do in the future. Obviously, this announcement was made this morning. It’s consistent with the concerns we’ve expressed. We continue to believe from – through the diplomatic channels that there is an opportunity for dialogue, and that’s what we’re focused on in this building.

MS. PSAKI: I think the Department of Justice made clear through their announcement that this is related to the law enforcement investigations of individuals who stole intellectual property from the United States businesses.

MS. PSAKI: Oh, do we have any more on China? China.

QUESTION: One more.

MS. PSAKI: Okay. Last one on China. Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think, Goyal, we have – I’ve addressed the question by conveying this is consistent with the concerns we’ve expressed. And obviously, there are a range of ways that we’re addressing it.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

QUESTION: Are you prepared to deal with a unity government that is the PA – the PLO and Hamas? Because there are reports in the Israeli press that you are ready to deal with the government, provided that it adheres to the Quartet principles.

MS. PSAKI: Well, our position as the United States Government has been consistent about the steps that any government would need to take. Obviously, that’s premature at this point, given there’s just been an announcement about the creation of this government, and that process obviously hasn’t seen itself through at this point.

MS. PSAKI: I think we did a readout at that time, Said, and we made clear that they discussed a range of issues, including recent political developments. And it shouldn’t come as a surprise that President Abbas would provide an update on that front.

QUESTION: Right.

MS. PSAKI: -- where he made clear that both sides had taken unhelpful steps. That’s his view. That’s the Secretary’s view. And I think he stated it pretty clearly in public.

MS. PSAKI: I will tell you that that is – report is categorically false and there’s been no secret about what his position is on the unhelpful steps taken by both sides. He’s spoken publicly about them, and I would point people to that.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to go into too much detail, other than to say that he had a busy schedule that day. He was – arrived for just a few minutes and did not have the conversation that was outlined in the news reports.

MS. PSAKI: He did not have the conversation that was outlined in the reports.

QUESTION: Okay. So that’s the – okay.

MS. PSAKI: They’re in Washington. And as I think I said last week, and Ambassador Shapiro and CG Ratney remain on the ground.

MS. PSAKI: Well, they’re here because this remains a priority of the United States Government. I don’t have any other details on their daily work plans.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead, Jo.

MS. PSAKI: I’m not – I would point you to them. I’m not aware of that.

QUESTION: Well, just because United States is actually one of the four members of the Quartet.

MS. PSAKI: Sure. I’m not aware of that statement that’s coming out, so I don’t know the details.

QUESTION: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: I would point you to the parties. I can tell you that the United States played no part in either arranging or participating in this meeting, but I would point you to the parties.

QUESTION: Because apparently, according to the timeline, Minister Livni met with President Abbas after she had had spoken with – on Thursday with Secretary Kerry.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm. Again, the United States played no role in organizing the meeting or arranging it, so I’d point you to the parties.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

QUESTION: -- “both sides must take helpful steps,” et cetera, et cetera.

MS. PSAKI: I’m just listening to what Jo is saying.

QUESTION: Got you.

MS. PSAKI: Secretary Kerry was aware in advance, but again, played no role. The United States played no role, and I’m not going to get into any other level of detail. And I don’t think it should come as a surprise that we wouldn’t announce a meeting we weren’t involved in on behalf of the parties who were involved in it.

MS. PSAKI: Again, we weren’t involved in any way in arranging the meeting or putting the meeting together. I don’t have any more details.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any more details about their meeting.

MS. PSAKI: Well obviously, Matt, we believe – I don’t have any particular comment in response to the prime minister’s comments, but we continue to believe, as we’ve said, there’s a door open to peace. It’s up to the parties to determine that path.

MS. PSAKI: I do not. I can check and see if we know any more about that.

MS. PSAKI: That is a safe assumption. I haven’t discussed that specifically with our team, but that is a safe assumption.

MS. PSAKI: I’m happy to see if there’s more to share on that front.

QUESTION: Thank you.

QUESTION: One follow – yeah, just a quick follow-up.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

MS. PSAKI: Again, this is a process where there’s only been – I shouldn’t say “a process.” There’s only been an announcement about a process moving forward. We’re going to see that play its way through, so I don’t have any further comment than that.

QUESTION: A unity government.

MS. PSAKI: Oh. If there’s an announcement, I’m sure we’ll have a comment from here. Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I don’t have any more details on this than what the White – the statement the White House put out. Typically we don’t confirm those type of details, but I’m happy to check and see if there’s more to share.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any more details to share.

MS. PSAKI: We’re happy to check and see if there’s more to share.

MS. PSAKI: Happy to check and see if there’s more to share.

MS. PSAKI: I think I’ve addressed your questions, and I’m happy to follow up with you after the briefing.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: I’d have to check and see. I know we’ve issued a statement from the White House just yesterday on this issue.

QUESTION: Yes. So President Putin is going to China this week.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: I know – I’m aware of the meeting – or the planned visit. I don’t have anything in particular to comment on it.

MS. PSAKI: Well, again, we continue to believe that having a productive working relationship is in both of our interests, and we have the upcoming S&ED, which, of course, the Secretary will be traveling for. As you know, we have a range of issues we work on, including concerns about the threat from DPRK, including concerns about climate change, and we hope they will continue.

MS. PSAKI: Well, what we’ve said in the past is obviously that China has not been supportive, traditionally, of the type of actions that has occurred in eastern Ukraine, so we’ll let them speak for themselves.

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

QUESTION: Yeah.

MS. PSAKI: -- in its findings last week. We certainly welcome today’s report by NDI, reconfirming that the Ukrainian Government’s preparations for the presidential election on May 25th are proceeding well. We’ve talked a little bit about the preparations in here. I can give a little update if that’s helpful.

QUESTION: Sure.

MS. PSAKI: There are approximately 900 short-term observers, seconded to – that are on the ground as a part of the ODIHR mission. They will be arriving today and tomorrow. Nationwide, 93 percent of district election commissions are functioning normally and are on track to conduct their elections for the May 25th election. And obviously, as we’ve said a little bit – or given a little bit of an update, but this continues – there are efforts underway to ensure or take every step possible that those in the limited areas where there are disruptions by separatists are – have opportunities to vote.

MS. PSAKI: Well, certainly there are parts of eastern Ukraine, including parts of Crimea where there are challenges. But most of Ukraine is calm and prepared to vote.

MS. PSAKI: Well, in what – I’m not sure what you mean.

QUESTION: Well, you guys have refused to accept the Russian annexation of Crimea.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: -- statistically accurate.

MS. PSAKI: A handful of – there are a handful of cities, as you know, where we’ve been concerned about the actions of separatists, but the majority of Ukraine remains calm and prepared for the elections.

MS. PSAKI: Those are – they’re the ones that you’re aware of that we’ve all been talking about.

QUESTION: So are you convinced that there will actually be any kind of representative elections that will happen in eastern Ukraine? I think the fear is coming out of many bodies at the moment is that it’s just not going to be possible because of the situation on the ground there.

MS. PSAKI: Well, given the number of observers on the ground and the preparations that are being made, and again, the reports that have been put out, not just by OSCE but by NDI today, there are preparations being made to allow for alternative voting sites for those living in some areas where it would be more challenging.

MS. PSAKI: I’ve talked about this a little bit in here, but in some of the areas like Slovyansk and Donetsk where there have been more actions by the separatists. There are steps being taken by the election monitors and the OSCE.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any other detail on the statistics, but we will see if there’s more we can provide.

MS. PSAKI: I have not seen those specific reports.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

QUESTION: Yes.

QUESTION: The region.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

MS. PSAKI: Nothing has changed. We have still seen no evidence of such movement. I would remind you that this isn’t – a similar announcement was made last week, and we didn’t see any evidence of movement at that time. And again, just to reiterate the fact that Russia has been maintaining significant forces in recently constructed – in areas along Ukraine’s borders remains of great concern to the United States, and we haven’t seen any change, despite the public comments.

Do we have any more on Ukraine? If not, we’ll go to Scott. Go ahead, Scott.

MS. PSAKI: We’ve seen, of course, the reports and the public comments, I guess, by some of the officials there. We don’t have any information to confirm that at this point. Our focus, of course, at this point, is to help the people of Mali, particularly in this incident in this long-suffering community, who seek the restoration of peace. But we don’t have any confirmation of those statements that were made on the ground.

MS. PSAKI: Well, at this point, we do not share that. At this point, the United States does not see Boko Haram as an affiliate or an official arm of al-Qaida. Obviously, it goes without saying that it does not take – does not – you don’t have to be an AQ affiliate in order to carry out terrorist activities. And as you know, Boko Haram is designated. But we don’t see that affiliation.

It is both. There is – naturally, we’ve been working with the Nigerian Government, as you know, for months now on the threat of Boko Haram, and our concerns have risen, as is evidenced by our designation last November. But there are some who are part of this team who are responsible for steps like consultations for those who return and preparing for – preparing law enforcement or strengthening law enforcement officials to prepare for future events.

So there’s – it’s both. This team that’s on the ground is focused on getting the girls back, but there are a range of steps and support that this team is also offering as it relates to the overall threat of Boko Haram.

Go ahead, Michael.

MS. PSAKI: I’d have to look back, Michael, and see what we said at the time. Obviously, this was a specific question some have understandably asked, given the comments over the weekend. But I’d have to check with our counterterrorism team.

MS. PSAKI: I believe back in – and we put out an extensive Fact Sheet, which you may be referring to too, and I believe it’s back some time ago there was that connection drawn, or there was a belief. But this is not – in this case we don’t believe there is a connection here.

MS. PSAKI: I believe now, but let me check with our CT team and make sure we can be very clear on that point.

QUESTION: If you could, because I think maybe they’re saying there is a link between – with AQIM, but they’re drawing a distinction between that and being an affiliate. So if you could clarify that at some point.

MS. PSAKI: Sure. And obviously, affiliate is different, which is your point. So let me take that and we’ll put out some clarifying language.

Go ahead, Nicolas.

MS. PSAKI: Well, again, as you know, this is Nigeria-led, led by the Nigerian Government. We’re playing a supportive role. We’re doing everything we can. But there’s no challenge – there’s no question it’s difficult. Obviously, if there was new information, I’m sure you would be aware of it.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

QUESTION: Wendy Sherman said in Paris after the meeting that there were discussions about the – about possible sanctions against – UN sanctions, sorry – against the leaders of Boko Haram. And she said these could come as early as this week. I wonder if you could enlighten us on a specific date and what sort of sanctions they could look like.

MS. PSAKI: We have been in discussions, but there’s nothing I have to announce today. And obviously, any announcement would come from the UN if that decision is made.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Libya.

MS. PSAKI: Libya. Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: Well, let me first say, of course, that we are closely monitoring developments in Libya. We remain very concerned about the violence over the weekend in Tripoli and Benghazi. We reiterate our call for all parties to refrain from violence and to seek resolution through peaceful means.

As you know, the safety and security of American citizens and U.S. personnel overseas is our highest priority. The President and Secretary have both been receiving regular updates – as they would in any case because we constantly monitor the security of our men and women serving overseas – on the situation in Libya and our diplomatic mission. We have made no decisions to move on any of our – move any of our personnel out of Libya. The situation on the ground, obviously, could change quickly, and so we’ll continue to evaluate and update our posture as needed.

MS. PSAKI: Typically. But in terms of the situation on the ground, I stated that, obviously, we’re watching the situation closely. Libya has many challenges, and we’re aware of that. We believe they cannot be overcome if its leaders don’t settle differences through dialogue and work together. Clearly, there have been a range of events over the weekend. I’m not in a position to analyze those from the podium. But we remain in close touch and we’ll be watching it closely in the coming days.

MS. PSAKI: Well, clearly, any violence we would condemn. And we don’t believe it brings about a positive or the best outcome.

MS. PSAKI: We’re watching it closely. I don’t have any other updates.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any other updates for you, Matt. We’ll see if there is more to provide.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: Nothing has changed. I’d have to check and see what the exact definition of the embassy on the ground is.

QUESTION: Okay.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

QUESTION: An air base. An air base.

MS. PSAKI: Oh, an air base. Okay, I’m sorry.

MS. PSAKI: Again, I’m not going to speculate. I haven’t seen those reports. Obviously, there’s a lot of fluidity on the ground. We’re watching it closely, but I don’t have any other analysis.

Go ahead, Nicolas.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any updates. I can check with our team and see if there’s more we can convey on that front.

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Again, this is a case where we feel there’s a lot happening on the ground. We’re still gathering information on a very fluid situation. We’re focused on helping to resolve the differences. We support, as you know, a democratic and peaceful means to bringing about stability in Libya, but there’s a great deal of fluidity on the ground so I don’t have any other analysis today.

MS. PSAKI: Well, obviously part of the discussion that the Quintet or Quint meeting had was on stepping up efforts on coordination, as it related to both security and supporting a political process there. So certainly he was indicating, as others who participated, that there would be a stepped up effort, that there’s dire concern about the situation on the ground. And so we’ll continue to coordinate with our partners, and we’ve had a range of meetings with the UK and last Thursday as an opportunity to continue that discussion.

QUESTION: India.

MS. PSAKI: Let’s go to the back. Go ahead. India.

QUESTION: Yeah.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we again have an extensive team on the ground, a very large presence in India, given the importance of our relationship. So I suspect there will be a range of officials on the ground who will be in contact and run point with the new government. I don’t have a specific date on her departure. We can check and see if there’s more we can update.

QUESTION: So after she leaves she said there’ll be a – there’s a large – yeah, I agree on that. So it will be a continent – contingent, but headless.

MS. PSAKI: Oh. No, I thought endless. No, what I was conveying is that just as is true with many, many governments where they have – we have a very important strategic relationship, there are a range of officials that interact with the government depending on the issue, whether it’s the economic counselor or the political counselor, communications officials – so I expect there will be a range of officials who will be in touch with the new government and be working with them.

MS. PSAKI: So many heads, not headless.

QUESTION: Yeah.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to get into the tick-tock, but heads of government and heads of state are eligible for an A-1 visa and must travel to the United States on an A-1 visa regardless of the purpose of the trip. As prime minister of India, obviously Modi would be a head of state, and you saw the announcement from the White House this weekend, after the President’s call, that they have invited him and would welcome him to the United States.

QUESTION: No, but he has to apply for the visa.

MS. PSAKI: Again, I’m not going to get into the tick-tock of the logistics, but obviously heads of state come to the United States on A-1 visas.

QUESTION: Thanks.

QUESTION: Jen, can I ask on this, there’s a technical question. I don’t expect you to have the answer to it.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm. Sure.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have that level of detail, as you expected. We’ll see if there’s more we can share.

MS. PSAKI: Oh, okay. One more on India. Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Hats, not heads.

MS. PSAKI: Again, as a head of state, he would be applying on an A-1 visa, so I don’t have any other details for visas for you.

MS. PSAKI: Well, you saw the statement from the White House where the President invited him to visit. Obviously, we have a long, enduring partnership with India. That will continue and hopefully only grow in the future.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any other details on our conversations.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: Oh, one on India? Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Social media.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any Twitter analysis today to share. We look forward to welcoming him to the United States when that schedule – when that visit is scheduled.

MS. PSAKI: I think our relationship between the United States and India is so strong and enduring we won’t worry about the Twitter rank order.

MS. PSAKI: Sure. Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: Friday or Saturday, yes.

MS. PSAKI: Let me take it and we’ll check with our team.

MS. PSAKI: No, it’s okay. It’s a good question. I didn’t have a chance to talk to them about Kenya.

QUESTION: I’m sorry. I don’t know where I was.

MS. PSAKI: We will talk to them and see if we can get all of you an update.

QUESTION: Sorry.

QUESTION: Turkey.

QUESTION: I’m sorry.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead, Turkey.

MS. PSAKI: We have not. To our knowledge, the Government of Turkey has not requested international assistance at this point. We stand ready to provide assistance to Turkey should it be requested. As we noted in our statement, we of course – and let me reiterate our heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of those who lost their lives in the tragic mining accident last week.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we are following, of course, the reports of protests in the wake of this terrible tragedy. We support, as you know, freedom of expression and assembly, including the right to peaceful protest, as fundamental to any democracy. So we will continue to watch that, but those are our views.

QUESTION: I have one more.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we saw the range of videos that have been out there. Of course, we reject the apparent use of unprovoked violence against demonstrators and urge accountability according to Turkey’s rule of law.

MS. PSAKI: We’ve seen the reports of them. I don’t have the specific language. Obviously, if there were offensive comments made, we’d of course condemn those. But I think there’s some confusion on that front.

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI: To the protests, I think I made clear that we reject the apparent use of unprovoked violence against demonstrators and protesters and urged accountability according to Turkey’s rule of law.

MS. PSAKI: There were some incidents, certainly, we are concerned about.

QUESTION: Yeah. One of the citizens in Soma.

QUESTION: He’s asking if, when you say – you don’t like unprovoked violence, if that includes what the prime minister did to this protester. I think that’s what he’s asking.

MS. PSAKI: I think we’re referring to a range of videos that have been out.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t think I have to get more specific. Go ahead.

QUESTION: Can I just ask about another incident that happened, but this time in North Korea? There are reports that last week some time there had been apartment building that collapsed, 23-story. And although it wasn’t finished, there were some families, about 100 families, 92 to 100 families were already living in there. I mean, the details are very sketchy, obviously; this is North Korea. And I just wondered if by any chance you had heard any reports from – via the Swedish Embassy or any more details via your own kind of intelligence about what may or may not have happened.

MS. PSAKI: We don’t have anything new to share or report. Of course, we would regret the loss of life. We regret any loss of life in an apparent tragedy like this, but we don’t have any more details.

MS. PSAKI: I’m not – not that I’m aware of. I’m sure – there’s a range of embassies around the world, so I would point you to them.

Go ahead in the back.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

QUESTION: What do you – do you have any reaction to the fact that the North Korean Government came out with an apology about this? This is very unusual for them to apologize for something.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any additional comment aside from what I’ve offered.

Go ahead, Scott.

MS. PSAKI: I hadn’t seen those, so let me talk to our team and see if we can get all of you a comment.

QUESTION: Well, wait. Aside from – there was a statement that came out of this building yesterday.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we put out a statement yesterday. I don’t have anything new to add, I should say.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any particular analysis for you.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t think that was the motivation here, Matt. But again, we’ll see if there’s more to offer on these particular talks.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any more to offer on this particular issue, Matt. We’ll see if there’s any update to Scott’s question beyond the statement we issued yesterday.

Thanks, everyone.

Do you already have an account on one of these sites? Click the logo to sign in and create your own customized State Department page.  Want to learn more? Check out our FAQ!
