
Branded Nigel Farage's comments on Romanians as 'frankly unpleasant'

David Cameron ferociously condemned Ukip last night saying voters had heard enough of its ‘appalling’ views.

In the closing days of campaigning for European and local elections, the Prime Minister said Ukip represented the ‘politics of anger’.

Decent, hardworking people who were tempted to vote for the anti-European party should think again, he said.

David Cameron said Ukip leader Nigel Farage's comments on Romanians was 'frankly unpleasant'

‘They are being found out,’ added Mr Cameron in his strongest attack on the party since he took office.

Dismissed calls from senior Tories to state he would campaign for a British exit from the EU if he fails to renegotiate looser ties;

Suggested a by-election in Newark next month was a key test of the Tories’ ability to burst the Ukip bubble;

Confirmed he will not resign if Scotland votes for independence in September.

Polls suggest Ukip is on course for a historic victory in Thursday’s elections to the European Parliament, despite weeks of allegations of sexism, homophobia and racism among its candidates.

An Opinium poll for the Mail put Ukip on course to win 31 per cent, ahead of Labour on 29 per cent, the Conservatives on 20 per cent and the Lib Dems tied with the Greens on a miserable 5 per cent.

Mr Farage was condemned by politicians from the three main parties after declaring in a radio interview last week that everyone knows ‘the difference’ between Romanians and Germans. Mr Farage’s second wife Kirsten is German.

The Ukip leader yesterday attempted to backtrack, saying the vast majority of Romanians were ‘good people’.

‘If I gave the impression... that I was discriminating against Romanians then I apologise certainly for that,’ the Ukip leader said on a campaign visit to Ramsgate. He said people would – rather than should – be concerned about Romanian neighbours.

Three prominent Labour figures – Yvette Cooper, Diane Abbott and David Lammy – went further, saying Mr Farage’s remarks were racist.

Asked if he would feel uncomfortable with Romanian neighbours, Mr Cameron said: ‘No. What was wrong with that remark is it just branded all people the same because they come from one country. It was an appalling thing to say.

‘They [Ukip] are being found out. During this campaign we have had the most extraordinary succession of statements from Ukip candidates and backers that do tell a story.

The Prime Minister added: ‘I understand there are lots of very hardworking, decent people in this country who are tempted by a vote for Ukip. They want to see the economy recover faster, they want to see action on immigration, they want a welfare system that encourages work properly and they want a say on Europe.

In 2006, as leader of the opposition, Mr Cameron said Ukip contained ‘fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists’, but has shied away from such rhetoric since.

Mr Cameron suggested it would be vital to prevent Ukip winning the June 5 by-election triggered by the resignation of disgraced MP Patrick Mercer in Newark.

‘The people of Newark were let down by their MP. This was a very bad scandal. I want them to have the best representation in Parliament,’ the Prime Minister said.

He confirmed he will not quit if the Scots vote to break away from the UK in a referendum on September 18. Even some senior Tories privately suggest Mr Cameron will face calls to go if he is the prime minister who presides over the end of the 300-year-old Union.

There was mixed news for the Conservatives in the opinion polls yesterday. One by Populus put them ahead, on 35 per cent to 34 per cent. However another survey, commissioned by pollster and former party donor Lord Ashcroft, put the Tories behind on 29 per cent, with Labour on 35 per cent.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
