
Khartoum – The AU High Implementation Panel has supported ongoing Sudanese government's efforts for national dialogue to be conducted during the forthcoming days, said Thabo Mbeki, AU chief mediator.

At a meeting with the Presidential Assistant and deputy president of the National Congress Party (NCP) Prof. Ibrahim Ghandour in presence of national figures and representatives of the civil society organizations, Mbeki was briefed on ongoing preparations for national dialogue and their vision regarding the forthcoming round of talks on the two areas slated for the end of May in Addis Ababa.

Ghandour told Mbeki that after the National Dialogue Mechanism is set up President Al Bashir will soon call it for a meeting, adding that the mechanism is tasked to determine issues for dialogue and participants.

Mbeki was also briefed on the efforts of the government and NCP for the national dialogue and preparations for the upcoming round of talks.

Mbeki asked when national dialogue will take place, who are the participants and the situation in Darfur, said Dr. Mustafa Osman Ismail, NCP Political Secretary.

He said Ghandour confirmed to Mbeki Sudan's firm stance on talks over the two areas and the lack of enthusiasm on the other party to reach a settlement.

The National Dialogue Mechanism will meet soon and the Mechanism will now take over dialogue, its topics, timetables and outcome, Dr. Ismail said.

He added that the government would again meet with Mbeki and the meeting is expected to set a date for the coming talks on the two areas and the start of national dialogue. Mbeki is also briefed on the parties that have opposed national dialogue and the ongoing efforts to convince them to participate, he said.

Representative of the Civil Society Organizations, Dr. Al-Tayeb Zain Al-Abdeen said after a meeting with Mbeki that the AU mediator sought to push efforts forward and promote national dialogue. He said they told Mbeki that the civil society organizations support the issue of national dialogue but want the government to create a conducive environment.

He said Mbeki asked about the obstacles hindering holding of national dialogue conference.

It is to be noted that Mbeki met with civil society organizations and national personalities including Dr. Mansour Khalid, Dr. Kamal Al-Jazouli (president of the Sudanese Writers Union), Ms Amira Al-Fadil and Dr. Al-Tayeb Zain Al-Abdeen.

He was also supposed to meet yesterday with leaders of opposition parties including Umma Party, Democratic Unionist Party (mainstream) and Democratic Unionist Party.
