
Last week’s announcement of foreign credit agency Standard and Poor’s upgrading of this country’s sovereign debt instruments should be welcomed by every Filipino, whatever his political persuasion or economic philosophy.

It’s great to see Philippine sovereign debt instruments treated with greater respect by the international financial community. S&P upgraded the Philippine government’s foreign long-term debt instruments to two notches above investment grade – to BBB from BBB- and its short-term foreign debt instruments to A-2 to A-3, with a “stable outlook.” A credit rating is an evaluation of the creditworthiness of a borrower – a government or a corporation – i.e., its ability to pay its debts when they fall due.

Considered by itself, then, last week’s credit rating upgrade provides cause for gratification. But it should not be considered by itself. Rather, it should be considered against the background of two things. One is the recent statement by the Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority on the status of the Philippine Millennium Development Goals effort and the most recent Social Weather Stations survey on self-rated poverty in this country.

A few weeks ago Neda head Dr. Arsenio Balisacan told a gathering that the Philippines was unlikely to meet the key MDG target, which was the reduction of extreme poverty in the country by fifty percent by the target date, Dec. 31, 2015. The MDGs are a time-bound set of eight socio-economic development goals formally agreed to by 192 heads of state at a ceremony at UN Headquarters in September 2000. President Joseph Estrada signed the Millennium Declaration for the Philippines. The eight goals, which range from primary school enrollment and maternal care to HIV control and infant mortality, are meant to be attained about a year and a half from now.

Since the Millennium Declaration speaks of extreme poverty, Dr. Balisacan’s statement on the MDGs indicates that poverty remains rampant in this country. In effect, the Neda chief admitted that at least 50 percent of Filipinos who were categorized are extremely poor in September 2000 have remained extremely poor. Dr. Balisacan has always been known to be a straight-talking, no-nonsense academic.

The UP Los Banos economist’s statement on the MDGs jibes with the finding of the most recent SWS self-rated poverty survey. The survey has reported that 50 percent – down by five percent from the preceding survey – of the survey respondents characterized themselves as poor and reported having gone without food for at least one day in the 90-day period preceding the survey. No self-respecting economist is going to deny, without batting an eyelash, that extreme poverty remains widespread in the Philippines of 2014.

To be sure, poverty is something that is not easy to eliminate in the typical developing country setting, and the elimination of extreme poverty is far more difficult to accomplish. Poverty thrives in the typical third-world environment.

That having been said, it bears stating the Aquino administration’s financial managers should stop ululating and giving themselves hefty pats on the back in the wake of the latest Philippine credit rating upgrade. True, the credit ratings of the sovereign long-term and short-term debt instruments will likely benefit the foreign debt issuances of private Philippine borrowers. True also, reduced foreign borrowing cost for the Philippine government usually result in reductions in the domestic lending rates of Philippine financial institutions. But the trickle-down effect to ordinary Filipinos, especially poor Filipinos, is weak and minimal.
