
The next full-fledged Winona County Administrator should have more oversight and less free rein than Duane Hebert did, County Board members Wayne Valentine and Steve Jacob agreed last week. The board reviewed the years-old job description for the position, which specifies that the administrator "employs broad discretionary powers" and "exercises an exceptionally wide latitude of independent judgement" and agreed to consider changes that would provide more elected oversight of county decisions and spending. A majority of the board agreed to look to other counties for examples of how to better involve elected officials in the management of county policies.

Commissioner Wayne Valentine led the charge. Under the current structure, "commissioners who ask questions are accused of micromanaging, but it think that's exactly what our constituents want us to do — ask questions," he said. "There are some counties [in which] the administrator doesn't buy a pen or pencil without the approval of the County Board. Some give their administrator free rein, and some are in between," Valentine continued. "One of the overriding things I've heard from the public is [that] people are clamoring for this County Board to provide more oversight," he said. "How do we accomplish that? I'm not not sure, but I think people are looking for elected officials to take a little more role in how our policies are administered." He added, "We are the policy makers, but we are obliged to insure that the policies are being administered in the manner we wish them to be."

Commissioner Steve Jacob responded, saying he supported keeping the role of county administrator, as opposed to another form of county government with a less powerful county coordinator, "but, I have heard from the public as well that maybe the board has stepped back a little too far. I understand that the policy in the past is that we don't want to micromanage our 300-some employees, but … this [job description] does seem pretty broad and pretty sweeping, giving a great deal of authority to the administrator and in some parts almost tying the hands of the board to interrelate with that."

Commissioners Marcia Ward, Jim Pomeroy, and Greg Olson did not make strong comments on their opinions on the need for greater elected oversight. Pomeroy stated that he would not support switching to a county coordinator form of government, which is allowed under state statute and typically used in smaller Minnesota counties. A county coordinator holds less authority than a county administrator. Ward noted that it has been a long time since the job description has been reviewed in detail.
