
Jay Timmons, president and CEO of the National Association of Manufacturers, says increased energy costs could hamper growth for manufacturers.

Manufacturers are keeping a close eye on recent energy-policy discussions in Congress amid growing concerns that new regulations on greenhouse gas emissions could put the squeeze on their industry.

Jay Timmons , president and CEO of the Washington, D.C.-based National Association of Manufacturers , told me as much during an interview last week. Timmons was in Kentucky for an industry conference in Lexington. He stopped by Business First's office in downtown Louisville on the way.

In Timmons' estimation, new regulations on greenhouse gas emissions could drive up of the costs of energy. That's a major concern because manufacturers are among the largest users of energy in the United States, he said. Increased costs could hamper growth for manufacturers.

Many scientists believe higher greenhouse gas emissions are a contributor in global climate change. If you need to brush up on the science of it, here's the EPA's explanation of how it works .

Timmons told me that his group hopes to put an end to what he believes is regulatory overreach by the agency and is making resources available for members on that front. It's pushing for what he calls "balanced regulations" on energy. You can find more on NAM's position here.

The energy-policy debate in Washington is evolving quickly. Well, maybe. Last week, Huffington Post published this story about an energy-efficiency bill being delayed by midterm election politics.

David A. Mann covers these beats: Health care, health insurance, distribution/logistics (UPS), manufacturing (GE, Ford), environment, travel, minority/women’s affairs and Southern Indiana.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
