
Maxim Shemetov / ReutersRussia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov speaks during a news a conference after a meeting with his Slovak counterpart Miroslav Lajcak in Moscow.

Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has asked the OSCE to help secure the release of two Russian journalists who are reportedly being held by Ukrainian soldiers in the eastern Ukrainian town of Kramatorsk.

The journalists' employers, online portal LifeNews, reported Sunday that the pair had gone missing while on an editorial assignment in the southeast of Ukraine.

It was not clear why the two men — Oleg Sidyakin and cameraman Marat Saichenko — were detained, LifeNews reported.

LifeNews, which is known to have close links with the Russian security services, also published a video on Monday that it says shows the duo lying on the ground with their heads covered and their hands tied behind their backs while armed guards keep watch over them.

Personal items possibly belonging to the two men, including passports, credit cards and press passes, are also shown in the video, as is an unidentified third detainee.

LifeNews said the soldiers in the video, which has been circulated by the Ukrainian media, are members of the Ukrainian National Guard.

OSCE observers exit a German military aircraft after being released by pro-Russian forces in east Ukraine.

Last week, a correspondent from Russian investigative newspaper Novaya Gazeta was detained overnight in the city of Artemvisk, while in April American journalist Simon Ostrovsky was held for more than two days before being released by separatists in Slovyansk.

Dunja Mijatović, the OSCE's representative on media freedom, condemned the continued harassment of journalists in Ukraine. "I reiterate my call to all sides to stop intimidating and threatening members of the media and to let them do their jobs," Mijatovic said Monday in an OSCE statement.

Last month, pro-Russian insurgents in the eastern Ukrainian town of Slovyansk detained eight OSCE military observers. One of the observers was released after two days because he had a mild form of diabetes, while the rest were held captive for more than a week.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
