
Mariela Lombard Koppell, a former city councilman and onetime state attorney general, has argued the power sharing arrangement that enables Klein to lead the Senate with GOP lawmakers in Albany amounts to treachery.

Beware, anybody who would cross Oliver Koppell.

Koppell and his wife, Lorraine Coyle Koppell, lashed out at Assemblyman Jeff Dinowitz and City Councilman Andy Cohen after the Bronx pols endorsed state Sen. Jeff Klein last week.

“What neither Dinowitz nor Cohen realize is they have lost whether Oliver wins or loses,” Coyle Koppell told supporters in an email sent Friday.

Sharp words from the former city councilman and onetime state attorney general, who has argued the power sharing arrangement that enables Klein to lead the Senate with GOP lawmakers in Albany amounts to treachery.

Klein angered some Democrats in March, after he called a floor vote on the N.Y. DREAM Act when two Republicans believed to be supporters of the legislation were absent.

The measure, which would have enabled the children of undocumented immigrants to apply for state financial aid programs, lost by a single vote.

Courtesy Jeff Dinowitz Assemblyman Jeff Dinowitz (D-Riverdale) and  Councilman Andy Cohen bore the brunt of Koppell's scathing attacks after they endorsed state Sen. Jeff Klein last week.

The five senators who went rogue to form the “Independent Democratic Conference” cost Democrats their majority in the chamber, and Klein is not the only one who has been branded a turncoat.

The Queens Democratic Party last week tapped John Liu, the embattled former city controller, to take on Sen. Tony Avella of Queens, another coalition member, in the September primary.

“We can’t tolerate that,” said Rep. Joseph Crowley, chairman of the Queens Democratic Party, who presided over the meeting of party leaders last Tuesday.

Cohen was unwavering in his support of Klein, who has represented the Riverdale area since district lines were redrawn in 2012.

Klein added the endorsements to a long list of Democratic lawmakers who have pledged support to the five-term senator.

Julia Xanthos/New York Daily News Klein stirred up controversy when he called for a vote on the N.Y. DREAM Act while two Republicans believed to be supporters of the legislation were absent.

The Benjamin Franklin Reform Democratic Club, a prominent Riverdale political group, will weigh its endorsement at a meeting Thursday.

“I look forward to fighting for this community well into the future with my colleagues, and I’m honored to have their support,” Klein said last week.

Cohen’s endorsement, in particular, stung. When he was term-limited off the Council last year, Koppell backed Cohen to succeed him.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
