
See the seniors of the Class of 2014 present flowers prior to their Commencement.  Video by Dustin Watson.

With the exception of brief flights of fancy into interstellar space and Middle-Earth—as well as a few graduation caps lifting off some well educated heads—yesterday afternoon’s commencement ceremony for the Brookfield High School (BHS) Class of 2014 was a down to earth affair.

In turn, BHS Principal Vicki Enyart cited an impressive list of accomplishments by members of the BHS Class of 2014: As a class, they raised the overall ACT composite score for R-3 to a higher level than it has been for years; one of their number, Salutatorian Andrew Crutcher, was an ACT Bright Flight Scholarship winner, which is accomplished by less than 3 percent of Missouri high school seniors taking the ACT; the Bell Game was won by the Bulldogs all four years the Class of 2014 was in high school; the softball, wrestling, and track teams all went to State; and the BHS Concert Band demonstrated yesterday why they set a school record for State Music Festival ratings.

Enyart then offered one of the most compelling introductions of a class salutatorian or valedictorian that I have heard in 14 years of covering high school commencements in Linn County. With characteristic humor the BHS Principal described how Salutatorian Andrew Crutcher had grown from wanting to be a cop and a comedian because he liked eating donuts and telling jokes to his present intention to pursue a career in computer science as a Certified Ethical Hacker. “Really!” Ms. Enyart assured a dumbfounded audience. The assembled parents and assorted relatives soon had to take note of the ‘Ethical’ portion of that rather dubious job title. Enyart described how, as a sophomore, Andrew had offered to abandon his extracurricular activities and find a job when his family lost everything in a fire, how he gave his services as a math tutor. “His feet are firmly rooted in values, faith, and impeccable ethics,” said Enyart, introducing this year’s BHS Salutatorian.

The title of Andrew’s commencement address, “The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy,” gave the audience further cause to wonder how grounded the Salutatorian really is until he cited the book by the same title as a “the standard repository of all knowledge and wisdom.” After all, what better source of advice for the graduates.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
