
The hull of a vessel, believed to be the Cheeki Rafiki, was spotted by a cargo ship this weekend.

It spotted no signs of life on board or a life raft.

The 40ft yacht ran into difficulties some 620 miles east of Cape Cod in Massachusetts on Thursday while returning to the UK from a regatta in Antigua.

Contact with the ship's experienced captain Andrew Bridge, 22, and crew members James Male, 23, Steve Warren, 52, and Paul Goslin, 56, was lost in the early hours of Friday while they diverted to the Azores.

US and Canadian aircraft assisted by three merchant vessels looked for them throughout Friday and Saturday but called off the search yesterday at 5am local time amid treacherous weather.

Their plea has been backed by well-known names including Ben Fogle.

The presenter tweeted: "Why has the search for the missing British sailors in the Atlantic been called off so soon? This is ridiculous. Never give up."

More than 20,000 people have signed a petition calling for the search to resume.

Kay Coombes, the sister of Mr Warren, said that she and their mother, Margaret Warren, were convinced that he was still alive.

She said: "It's an utter nightmare, we are grateful for the US and Canadian coast guards for what they have done so far but it's stopped too soon after two days, it's not long enough, we believe they are still alive.

"They are four strong-minded, physically strong sailors, they knew they were in difficulties and had every opportunity to get into the life raft which would have had provisions for several days. But if no one is looking for them, they won't be found."

Mrs Coombes, 46, said she did not believe the US Coastguard had any intention of resuming the search even when weather conditions improved.

She said: "Everyone is just trying to put pressure on the US Coastguard using every channel possible. They said they would only continue the search when any debris was found but if no one is looking how can they find it, there are only passing ships in a very big ocean."

Mrs Coombes said her brother, who works as a project manager for an electrical company in Wincanton, Somerset, was an experienced sailor who was on a working holiday aboard the yacht.

She said: "He has always been around on the water, he had several sailing holidays in the Mediterranean and three years ago he sailed from the Azores to Southampton when he had a real taste of what it's like to sail on the oceans."

She added that their mother was very upset and added: "It's very, very difficult, especially being so far away."

The crew had joked on social media about their lengthening beards and the food they were eating on their journey back to Southampton.

A blog posted to Facebook on Tuesday, one of their last, read: "And yesterday we did it ... we turned east for home, completing our first 1,000 miles (which) was celebrated with a release of a cherished beach ball with a note inside, I hope it doesn't get home before us!

"We are already thinking of home and the ones we love and miss, you know who you are!"

Sailing experts questioned why no one on the Greek-registered 1,000ft container ship MAERSK KURE had tried to get down to the yacht when it spotted the Cheeki Rafiki's hull, which appeared to be missing its keel.

Andrew Pindar, who runs the GAC Pindar racing team, said that crew members could still have been trapped inside the Cheeki Rafiki's hull at that point.

And he cited the example of Tony Bullimore, who survived on a pocket of air under his capsized yacht in the Southern Ocean for five days before being rescued in 1997.

But Petty Officer Rob Simpson, of the US Coastguard, claimed that the ship "lacked the manoeuvrability, capacity and ability to help".

"It has a fairly limited possibility of picking anything up - it is not designed for search and rescue capabilities or anything like that or trained to do anything like that," he said.

Asked if others could have attended the scene where the hull was found, PO Simpson said: "It is not possible to take a helicopter that far off shore - the search area is very far out in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. The grand scale of this is immense.

"Aircraft take four or five hours to get there and vessels can take over a week. This particular ship just happened to be in the area, they were not tasked specifically for this."

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are aware of a missing yacht off the east coast of the USA with four British nationals on board.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
