
After several exasperating decades, one of the thorniest and most painful issues  on Israel’s public agenda may at last be heading toward a resolution. In a move  underlining the national consensus regarding the Temple Mount, Likud MK Miri  Regev and Labor MK Hilik Bar have reached across the aisle to prepare a joint  bill that would allow Jews to pray at the nation’s holiest site.

The  proposed law, which is slated to be submitted soon to the Knesset for approval,  would right one of the most glaring wrongs on Israel’s human rights record. It  would end discrimination against Jews who wish to commune with their Creator on  the Mount without fear of arrest.

Don’t believe the media’s attempts to  paint this bill as “controversial.” The only thing controversial about it is  that there is a need for such a bill in the first place. Incredibly, despite  Supreme Court rulings upholding the right of Jews to freedom of worship on the  Temple Mount, the police have never – not once! – allowed this right to be  exercised.

Instead, Jews who visit the Mount are subjected to humiliating  restrictions designed to ensure that they do not pray. These include  prohibitions on silently moving one’s lips, lest one clandestinely try to  beseech God, or even bringing a Bible or prayer book to the site.

In  recent months, several US congressmen visiting Israel under the auspices of the  Yes to a Strong Israel! organization headed by the indefatigable Ruthie  Lieberman have witnessed this discrimination firsthand.

And  yet they do, despite Israel’s ostensible commitment to freedom of  worship.

In a scandalous act of submissiveness, the government has  allowed the extremist Muslim Wakf to call the shots on the Temple Mount, where  it thumbs its nose at Israel and its laws and denies Jews their basic  rights.

But hopefully, that is about to change.

Bar is absolutely correct, and he and Regev are  to be commended for their bold stand on behalf of Jewish rights.

The  situation has simply become intolerable and Knesset action is long  overdue.

To fully appreciate the absurdity of the police’s behavior,  consider the case of activist Yehuda Glick, who has dedicated his life to  educating the public about the Temple Mount. For years, Glick has taken  countless groups to the site, explaining its history and significance.

A  few months ago, the police informed him out of the blue that they were banning  him from ascending the Mount, without explaining the reasons behind their  decision. Glick’s numerous attempts to clarify why the police were hitting him  with this draconian and decidedly undemocratic measure were met with stony  silence.

So he launched an audacious hunger strike, which has stretched  to over 50 days, seeking to get his fundamental civil right to visit the Mount  restored, or at least to force the police to provide an explanation so that he  can counter whatever allegations might exist against him.

This is no way  for any self-respecting democracy to be acting. Government exists to protect the  rights of the people, not to thwart them, and it is about time that Israel  stopped preventing Jews from engaging in public worship on the Temple  Mount.

This issue has nothing to do with extremism and everything to do  with basic questions of liberty and freedom. The fact of the matter is that Jews  and Muslims both pray at the Tomb of Samuel the Prophet outside Jerusalem, and  at the Cave of the Patriarchs in Hebron. There is no reason why they cannot do  so at the Temple Mount in Jerusalem too.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
