
I began my career in journalism in 2008 with a quick stint at the United Nations office in Geneva, Switzerland, where I wrote about topics ranging from trade and development to nuclear nonproliferation to Swiss flea markets. Later that year I began working as a stringer for the Chicago Tribune, covering the small towns of northern Illinois—including the one where I grew up— as they weathered the municipal impact of the worsening recession. My work has appeared in the Chicago Daily Herald, National Geographic Intelligent Travel, and Inc.com. Currently, I am interning at Forbes and pursuing a master’s degree from NYU in Business and Economic Reporting. Find me on Twitter @KathrynDill.

Abramson To Wake Forest Graduates: 'Show What You Are Made Of'

The sun shone brightly Monday morning in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, as recently departed executive editor of the New York Times Jill Abramson took the stage in Hearn Plaza to deliver Wake Forest University’s commencement address.

Abramson confirmed on Thursday of last week that she would deliver the speech, having been fired by the Times the previous day.

“I cannot think of a better message for the Class of 2014 than that of resilience,” said University President Nathan Hatch in statement.

Abramson placed the focus squarely on the graduates and opened with a story of one of her favorite family photos, of her father at her graduation from Harvard. Having never had the opportunity to attend or graduate from college, he squeezed himself into Abramson’s cap and gown.

Several Wake Forest students the previous evening had asked Abramson if she’d be having her infamous Times ‘T’ tattoo removed from her back.

Abramson also discussed people who have made constructive changed through loss. Recalling when she herself was hit by a truck in Times Square seven years ago, Abramson referenced a story she worked on about vehicular safety and pedestrians and an email she received afterwards from Dana Lerner, the mother of Cooper Stock, a 9-year old boy who was struck and killed by a cab in January. Lerner and her husband are pushing for legislation that could prevent future similar tragedies from taking place.

Abramson described three of her heroes, beginning with Nan Robertson, and Katharine Graham.

Abramson then recalled the book she co-authored about Anita Hill and the way she was discussed at the Clarence Thomas hearings.

Hill, she said, wrote to her last week to say she was proud of her.

Her mother, said Abramson, was a great knitter, who made mostly beautiful but also a few “itchy” and “hideous” sweaters. Most importantly, she left some things unfinished.

Follow me on Twitter  @KathrynDill .

Amen! The mindset that makes someone great is right there. She could have complained about life being unfair. She could have used this all as an excuse to stop trying. Instead she sees it as an inspiration to try harder! If only more people culd rise above like this.
