
(Photo : NASA) Astronauts are taking social media to space aboard the ISS.

NASA's leader has dismissed concerns that U.S. friction with Russia might spell the end of the International Space Station, saying it could keep operating without Russia.

The Russian government last week said it would no longer cooperate with the U.S. on the ISS project beyond 2020, writes The Washington Post.

The warning followed recent sanctions imposed by the United States following Russia's actions in the Ukraine.

NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said Monday that the space station is run jointly by the U.S., Russia, Japan, Europe and Canada, and no single partner could terminate the project, writes The Washington Post.

Bolden told reporters in Berlin that, even if Russia withdrew, no participating nation "is indispensable on the International Space Station."

The NASA leader told reporters he expects private companies to start transporting astronauts to the space station by 2017.

Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri Rogozin, in the meantime, announced Monday a future of increased cooperation with the emerging Chinese National Space Agency, writes The Moscow Times.

Rogozin met with his Chinese counterpart, Deputy Prime Minister Wang Yang, in Beijing on Monday.

Following the meeting, Rogozin announced on  Twitter that he had signed "a protocol on establishing a control group for the implementation of eight strategic projects."

In a later Facebook post, he said "cooperation in space and in the market for space navigation" were among the projects.

Rogozin and Wang agreed to hold a meeting between the heads of their respective agencies "in the near future," so that Beijing and Moscow could sow the seeds of a potential space partnership.

Roscosmos Space Agency Chief Oleg Ostapanko wants to allow "Chinese colleagues participate in some of the most interesting projects that can replace the ISS," Rogozin said.

© 2014 Design & Trend All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
