
Jewish extremists have been told they will be arrested if they attempt to disrupt the upcoming visit of Pope Francis.

Police in Jerusalem have become increasingly concerned about vandalism which has targeted Christian and Arab property, including mosques and churches.

Although police have made scores of arrests, there have been no successful prosecutions in the so-called "price tagging" wave which has been perpetrated by young Jewish settlers living in the West Bank.

Speaking on Sunday, Police Commissioner Yohanan Danino said a group of extremists had warned the pontiff's visit, which begins on May 25th, could be threatened.

Danino said there had already been attempts by some extremists to try to provoke Christians.

He said the Jewish extremists had created a bad atmosphere before the visit, prompting expressions of concern from Christian leaders.

Last week, Latin Patriarch Fuad Twal, head of the Roman Catholic Church in the Holy Land, said church officials had become very concerned about the lack of security.

Insisting the police would not allow extremists to deface Christian holy places, Yohanan Danino said he had adopted a position of no tolerance.

Palestinians are currently completing preparations for the visit of Pope Francis who will begin his trip in Jordan on May 24th, travelling to the West Bank town of Bethlehem the next morning.

Later that day, he will travel to Jerusalem where he will stay until the evening of May 26th.

An extra 8,000 police officers are going to be deployed throughout Jerusalem for the duration of the visit.

When it comes to Iran's nuclear weapons program, the only difference between them is this: Ahmadinejad was a wolf in wolf's clothing, Rouhani is a wolf in sheep's clothing, a wolf who thinks he can pull the wool over the eyes of the international community.

The chief lobbyist for the National Retail Federation was speaking about talks to end the U.S. government shutdown.

Get the latest Philippine Times headlines delivered to your inbox.
