
He also played the same number of rounds of golf.

The military post had reported an active shooting situation via social media Monday morning.

Undersecretary Brothers launches collaborative online channel for feedback on long-term strategies.

Retiring Wisconsin Republican says he is looking forward to the results of the inquiry he requested earlier this year.

Allegations of feds abusing telework at Patent and Trademark Office put honest employees and managers in a tough spot.

Eugene W. Grant is conducting city business in a tent.

Policy experts have given mixed reviews to a proposal to open the Thrift Savings Plan to all Americans, with some conservative groups fearing an increased role for the federal government.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., unveiled his plan last week as part of a larger retirement reform proposal. Rubio called it unfair that federal employees and lawmakers have access to the TSP -- a defined-contribution retirement savings account -- but the general public does not. He pitched offering the TSP to all American workers who lack access to a similar, employer-sponsored plan.

Some of Rubio’s fellow conservatives voiced criticism of the Florida Senator’s plan, however. The Heritage Foundation wrote a critique of the proposal, saying it would result in a “huge government-directed windfall” for BlackRock, the investment company with the largest contract with TSP.

The number of workers without employer-sponsored plans is estimated at 78 million individuals.  Heritage noted that if just one in 10 of those eligible signed up for the TSP, the plan would triple in size.

Romina Boccia, a fellow at Heritage, wrote the TSP expansion would “crowd out private-sector retirement accounts.” Both Boccia and Jason Richwine, an economist who criticized Rubio’s proposal in the conservative-leaning National Review Online, said the plan would open up TSP to diverting funds toward “politically motivated goals.” The authors imagined TSP administrators divesting from companies that are not environmentally friendly or oppose same-sex marriage.

“Given the amount of money the government would oversee, that pressure could be a backdoor way for the government to regulate business practices and even political speech,” Richwine wrote.

He also said the government securities (G) fund, which invests in U.S. Treasury bonds, already provides an exclusive benefit to the federal workforce, and its expansion would be prohibitively expensive.

Not all the reviews were negative, however. The American Enterprise Institute, another right-leaning think tank, defended Rubio’s policy offering, arguing the participation and contribution rates would likely be low.  Andrew Biggs, a resident scholar at AEI and former official at the Social Security Administration, estimated only about $5.2 billion in new annual contributions to the TSP under Rubio’s proposal. TSP currently manages roughly $391 billion in assets.

"I applaud Senator Rubio for taking a really important step," David Madland, the author of CAP's proposal, told Government Executive. He added the plan would provide individuals with a better way to save their money without adding costs to the government. "I don't see how conservatives could object."

In his most recent State of the Union address, President Obama  proposed  MyRA, which would give all Americans access to the G Fund.

Want to contribute to this story? Share your addition in comments .

By using this service you agree not to post material that is obscene, harassing, defamatory, or       otherwise objectionable. Although GovExec.com does not monitor comments posted to this site (and       has no obligation to), it reserves the right to delete, edit, or move any material that it deems       to be in violation of this rule.
