
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 9:11 p.m.

The Alachua County Commission recently approved a phased, 10-year preliminary development plan for a forthcoming traditional neighborhood development near Newberry and Parker roads, although several residents spoke up with concerns during last week's board meeting.

The Newberry Road and 122nd Street Traditional Neighborhood Development is projected to have 300 residential units as well as 150,000 square feet of space for nonresidential use. It will be located in the 12000 block of Newberry Road near Parker Road, also known as 122nd Street.

Last week, the County Commission voted 3-1 with Commissioner Susan Baird against and Commissioner Charles “Chuck” Chestnut IV absent during the vote to approve the preliminary development plan for the project.

The property owner, Parkwood Alachua Land Investments Inc., is being represented by Causseaux, Hewett, & Walpole regarding this matter. The County Commission previously deferred its decision in April so a few changes could be made to the site plan and approved the preliminary development plan on May 13.

Senior Transportation Planner Chris Dawson told The Sun the development will include buildings with a maximum of four stories, although in some areas they'll be two stories or even just one story tall at maximum.

Residents brought up increased traffic along Newberry and Parker roads as a result of the incoming traditional neighborhood development as one of their top concerns during last week's County Commission meeting.

The county expects an increase in traffic with the Newberry Road and 122nd Street project as it would with any new development, Dawson told The Sun.

“More people, more traffic. There's kind of no way around that,” he said.

Although the project will cause some increase in traffic, Growth Management Director Steve Lachnicht pointed out that Newberry Road is already a busy, fairly large road. However, he told The Sun the county does take traffic impacts into account and will collect a mobility fee from the applicant based on those impacts that will be used to fund capacity improvements, which could include turn-lane improvements, for example.

Although the preliminary development plan has been approved, the project still has to come before the Development Review Committee, which is composed of a few county staff members, Lachnicht said. The preliminary plan establishes the general layout of the property, while the forthcoming final development plan is more detailed and will include engineering specifics.

A traditional neighborhood development involves using a gridded pattern as well as a mix of uses within a more compact space, Lachnicht said.

This type of development is supposed to be more accommodating for pedestrians and differs from the more suburban plan of spreading and separating everything.

Downtown Gainesville has some elements of a traditional neighborhood development, he said, and he mentioned Savannah, Georgia, as a good example of that style with its mix of parks, residential spaces and commercial areas laid out in a grid fashion.

A couple of residents questioned how traditional a traditional neighborhood development really is last week during the County Commission meeting.

One man said the term “traditional neighborhood development” was one of the best deceptive euphemisms he's heard in years.

Another local resident said he and others came to this particular area to live in a traditional neighborhood, but the development that is supposed to be going in there now isn't traditional.

After residents had said their piece about the proposal during the meeting, Commissioner Mike Byerly said he appreciated everyone coming out that night.

People move to an area and may hope it will stay that way for as long as they're there, but everyone who moves in has an impact and that process continues as new neighbors come in, he said. Growth is coming, and this is a major intersection where commercial and higher-density development is appropriate.

“So I hear what you're saying and I appreciate how you feel, but in fairness to the people who continue to move to our community we have to pick the most appropriate places,” he said.
