
Junior Energy Minister Julian Robinson has been given the responsibility of heading a task force to find ways to reduce the theft of electricity from the Jamaica Public Service Company (JPS). Wow! The light thieves must be trembling.

One wonders why is there a need for such a committee other than to find a way to accommodate criminals who have decided they will not be paying a dime for electricity.

The light and power company has said that 200,000 persons have been stealing from it, putting its business at risk, and the best response from the State is to set up a committee.

JPS President Kelly Tomblin has said the eradication of electricity theft could reduce electricity cost to customers by 10 to 15 per cent. Tomblin has also said that the 200,000 electricity thieves utilise more than three times the amount of energy consumed by paying customers.

The national security minister should be telling the police commissioner to do his job - go out there and prosecute the thieves who throw up wires on the JPS property and abstract electricity with contempt.

I know that the police will be quick to say they have been doing all they can to clamp down on the practice, but that's a big fat lie. Last Thursday, for example, I decided to drive through an area of St Andrew which I will call 'Light Thief Avenue'. This was at the height of the tug-o-war between the Government and the JPS over the company's decision to cut power going to communities where there is a high incidence of theft.

I can't say I am surprised to have seen the JPS wires being held hostage by hundreds, if not  thousands, of illegal throw-ups, a demonstration of the freeness mentality that prevails in the area. What surprised me is that there was a police patrol vehicle parked under a spider web of illegally connected wire and the policemen aboard the vehicle appeared oblivious to the criminality.

The police have said 1,600 persons have been arrested for electricity theft since it established a joint task force, comprising members of the force and the JPS, to crack down on electricity theft in 2011.

The police also say nearly 400,000 illegal connections have been removed. But given what I saw on Thursday, I am forced to wonder if there is a zero-tolerance approach to light theft. Personally, I think the police turn a blind eye.

Now, Robinson and his team are being asked to reinvent the wheel. They are being asked to tell the police to do their jobs; they are being asked to tell politicians to stop condoning the act; even as we know the political class will continue making excuses for the thieves who reward them for their advocacy with votes on election day.

Jamaica will continue to fall deep into the abyss of moral degradation and persistent low or no growth if we continue to justify criminal acts such as the stealing of electricity. The country runs the risk of falling so far behind if we, in any way, give reprieve to these persons either in the form of a proposed flat rate or preferential community rate. Karl Samuda, while not seeking to justify electricity theft, said in the House of Representatives last week that a lot of the persons now trespassing on JPS lines do so because light bills are high and they can't afford it. He can't wait for the Office of Utilities Regulation to approve the proposal.

One hopes, however, that no such community or flat rate is ever approved or it would be the darkest day in these dark days Jamaica now experiences. It would send the signal that pilfering pays, and would be a reward for unlawful activities. Also, there would be no guarantee that people who have decided that stealing is the best way to get electricity will ever be legally connected to the grid.

There are some who have couched the argument in support of the community or flat rate as a human-rights issue or that electricity is an essential service. I respectfully beg to differ. Those who for one reason or another have not found it possible to get legal electricity should buy candles and kerosene, and get batteries - and this is not said as an insult.

I have been there, where the kerosene and candles are concerned. I studied for my Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate examinations using a lamp, the same lamp that took me through high school. My parents were only able to get electricity in our home when I was in sixth form. I have no doubt that there are thousands of Jamaicans with a similar story. They did not resort to pilfering.

It is for this reason that I take this matter very personally, especially when one considers the fact that paying customers of the JPS are required to pay a portion of the companies non-technical losses.

There can be nothing more unfair than for people in communities and establishments across the island to be stealing power and the captive customers being asked to carry their burden. If the Robinson committee is not going to be insisting that the police do its work, and that a special division of the resident magistrate's courts be established to deal with serious matters such as the theft of utilities and agricultural produce, it is wasting its time.

The comments on this page do not necessarily reflect the views of The Gleaner.

The Gleaner reserves the right not to publish comments that may be deemed libelous, derogatory or indecent.           Please keep comments short and precise. A maximum of 8 sentences should be the target.           Longer responses/comments should be sent to "Letters of the Editor" using the feedback form provided.
