
The Port of Hamburg, Europe’s third-biggest commercial harbor, reported container volume gains in the first quarter that beat market growth, led by Asian traffic, and said Russian trade hasn’t suffered from the Ukraine crisis.

The port handled 2.4 million standard containers, or TEUs, an increase of 8 percent, as trade with China and other Asian countries rose 9 percent to 1.3 million TEU, Port of Hamburg Marketing said today in a statement. Traffic with Russia advanced 4 percent to 168,000 TEU.

“The crisis in eastern Europe hasn’t had an impact on volumes,” board member Axel Mattern told reporters at a briefing in Hamburg. He declined to give a forecast for the year, though board member Ingo Egloff said separately that the port still expects volume to grow moderately.

Russia is Hamburg’s biggest trading partner after China, as the port serves as a transfer hub, with containers from deep-sea ships from Asia moved to smaller feeder vessels destined for the Baltic Sea. So-called transshipment volume advanced 6.5 percent in the first quarter, the port said.

Average container throughput at the four biggest harbors of the North Range, which also includes Rotterdam, Antwerp and Bremerhaven, grew 2.3 percent in the first three months of the year, Port of Hamburg said. Hamburg’s above-average growth led to a 1.4 percentage-point increase in market share, to 26.8 percent.

Total throughput, which includes bulk and mixed cargo, at the four ports rose by an average 1.8 percent, while Hamburg reported an 8.6 percent gain to 35.6 million metric tons.

Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG, the handler of about three-fourths of the containers at Hamburg’s port, said last week that first-quarter volume rose 2.4 percent as traffic from the Far East grew, while warning that the crisis in Ukraine may hurt full-year results.

Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March, and Ukrainian forces are continuing to fight with insurgents in the east after pro-Russian separatists said they plan to hold elections.

Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Thank you for subscribing to our Daily Newsletter. You will receive a confirmation email shortly at .
