
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

Chile's President Michelle Bachelet on Monday announced a reform package for the education sector, a key plank of her election campaign that will expand free education for many students, create more universities and give increased funding for kindergarten.

Ms. Bachelet took office in mid-March and quickly started to reform the tax code to raise funds for the education overhaul, which includes making education free for many students.

"Today we are complying with one of the promises that we made to the nation. We are starting a process of profound transformation of our education system, which will allow us to ensure a quality, nonprofit education system that ensures integration," Ms. Bachelet said.

All schools that receive government funding will be obligated to be nonprofit institutions and the government will gradually increase its payment to end copays for education.

The government also plans to sharply increase the number of preschool institutions, creating 90,000 places for preschool students.

The government plans to create a new office of superintendent for higher education as well as two new universities.

The president's office said that by the second half of this year the executive branch will send to Congress a bill to make secondary education free.

"This will be a fundamental advance towards making education free and to strengthen the quality of public education," said Aldo Cornejo, the speaker of Chile's lower house of Congress and a member of Ms. Bachelet's Nueva Mayoria political alliance.

Education reform has been a key demand from university students who have organized massive protests to pressure the government to improve the quality of the schooling system and lower costs as part of a broader campaign to reduce inequality in the South American nation. Chile is ranked as having one of the highest levels of inequality among members of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development.

Earlier this month, tens of thousands of students protested in Santiago, leading to some skirmishes with police officers. The demonstration was the first major protest that Ms. Bachelet has faced since taking office in March.

On Monday, student leader Melissa Sepúlveda said that the education reform didn't go far enough. "The content is insufficient and contradicts the expectations that the current government created," she said in comments reported by newspaper El Mercurio.

Ms. Sepúlveda, a medical student at the University of Chile, reportedly said that students would hold protests on Wednesday, when President Bachelet is scheduled to give a state of the union speech. Ms. Sepúlveda wasn't immediately available for comment.

Ms. Bachelet's government has said it would pay for the education overhaul through a controversial tax reform that will increase the tax haul by three percentage points of gross domestic product, or about $8.2 billion annually.

The reform includes eliminating a tax exemption for businesses that reinvest profits, known as the FUT, and gradually increasing the corporate tax rate to 25% by 2017 from the current rate of 20%.

The reform has been criticized by the private sector and opposition politicians over its potential impact on investments at a time when Chile's economic growth has started to slow.

On Monday, the central bank said that Chile's economy expanded 2.6% in the first quarter compared with the same period last year. The economy grew by 4.9% in the first quarter of 2013.

The tax reform was approved by the lower house of Congress last week and will now be sent to the Senate for debate and approval.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
