
Last Modified: Tuesday, May 20, 2014 at 7:42 a.m.

Terrebonne Parish officials are pushing for support for the creation of a state department to handle elderly affairs in Louisiana.

Terrebonne’s Council on Aging Director Diana Edmonson has already made several trips to Baton Rouge for the effort and will again make her way to the Legislature to join others seeking a state Department of Elderly Affairs. Terrebonne Parish Council also passed a resolution urging such action at its meetings last week.

It’s an important issue for Edmonson and others as the state handles much of the money the council spends on its programs, although state support has been dwarfed by contributions from local taxes.

“It would be very beneficial to the council and to the elderly so we could have a seat at the big table. There is much federal money coming down the pipe, but unless we are able to apply for it, it is to no avail for us,” Edmonson said.

The organization’s most visible service, and costliest, is its transportation program, which is primarily used to transport the elderly and disabled to doctors’ appointments or for medical treatment such as dialysis, Edmonson said.

The organization also has a rural system that picks up those without transportation and takes them to where the need to go, such as the grocery store. Edmonson said this service costs a dollar each way and can open up the entire city of Houma by linking the service to the parish public transit system.

The organization’s second most reaching service is hot meals served to the elderly in need. On a typical day, 178 clients receive a meal at a lunch site and some 625 receive a meal delivered to their home.

One concern is previous attempts to shuffle money though the state Department of Health and Hospitals instead of the office that has historically handled the money for the elderly, Edmonson said.

Last year, the Legislature voted unanimously to create such a department, but a constitutionally set limit of 20 departments, which the state is already at, stands in the way, said Rep. Joe Harrison, R-Napoleonville.

“The elderly population is exploding with the baby boomers. I can’t understand why we wouldn’t need our own department,” Edmonson said.

Harrison has put forth House Bill 1256, which would combine the Department of Children and Family Services within the Department of Health and Hospitals, freeing up a slot for the new division.

That bill is scheduled to be heard by the Senate health and welfare committee Wednesday.

Another effort by Harrison was to allow voters to decide whether the state’s constitution should be amended to allow for the new elderly division.
