
QUEENSLAND'S sacked assistant health minister will remain in the Liberal National Party but his colleagues have told him to stop his public attacks on the Newman government's policies.

Premier Campbell Newman sacked Chris Davis last week, saying he'd breached the principle of cabinet solidarity by speaking out about some policy changes, including reforms to the state's corruption watchdog.

Dr Davis survived a partyroom meeting on Monday and will remain in the LNP.

He's said he'll continue to speak out against policies he disagrees with, but will do it in the party room.

Deputy premier Jeff Seeney said colleagues made their views clear during an emotional meeting.

"In the main, the issues were raised by Dr Davis's colleagues," Mr Seeney told the ABC.

"All of the comments that were made to him were made by his colleagues, not by me or by the treasurer or by anyone in a leadership position."

Last week, Dr Davis claimed part of the reason he'd been sacked was because he'd raised with the government concerns about its plans to ease restrictions on political donations.

The premier's office flatly denied Dr Davis had raised the issue.

The displeasure of his colleagues was clear on Monday as government members headed into the partyroom meeting.

"What Chris has to realise is that if you continue to cry wolf, you'll eventually lose credibility," Housing Minister Tim Mander told reporters.

"It's no good roaring like a lion in public and being as meek as a mouse in the party room."

Energy Minister Mark McArdle and Local Government Minister David Crisafulli also registered his displeasure.

"Dr Davis has got a job to do right now and that is to get back and work for his electorate. Full stop. End of story," Mr Crisafulli said.

Dr Davis said it wasn't his intention to upset those in his own party, and he would confine future criticism to the partyroom.

"I certainly acknowledged any distress that my comments may have caused. That was not my intention," he told the ABC.

"My intention all along has been to actually serve my electorate."
