
A: Charges for this doctor’s visit that you cannot identify may just be an error. It could also be an incorrect coding of a covered Medicare service. To get more information about the charge, call (800) MEDICARE (800-633-427).

The possibility exists, however, that it could be Medicare fraud. Medicare fraud is big business.

Just last week, the U.S. Department of Justice announced that the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, part of the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT), had arrested 90 individuals, including 27 doctors, nurses, and other health-care professionals, for their alleged participation in Medicare fraud schemes. If proves to be true, the total is approximately $260 million in false billings. The scams allegedly include false billings for various medical treatments and durable medical equipment, pharmacy fraud, kickbacks and other charges.

Federal officials estimate that Medicare fraud costs taxpayers about $60 billion annually. It’s important to recognize and report Medicare fraud because illegal payments and billings drain valuable resources from the Medicare trust fund and affect the quality of care for beneficiaries. In addition to charges for services or medical equipment not ordered or received, other examples of Medicare fraud include billing for name-brand drug when generic medications were dispensed, billing for individual mental health services when group therapy was provided, or using another beneficiary’s Medicare card to services, medical supplies, or durable medical equipment such as walkers, wheelchairs, or lift chairs.

Rhode Island has approximately 188,000 Medicare beneficiaries. The Rhode Island Senior Medicare Patrol Program (SMP) recruits volunteers to educate fellow Medicare beneficiaries across the state about fraud. SMP volunteers train their peers to review their MSN carefully. The watch words for SMP volunteers are protect (your Medicare card), detect fraud, and report your concerns.

If you suspect Medicare fraud, call SMP at 462-0931. You can also call the Office of the Inspector General at (800) 447-8477. The TTY number is (800) 377-4950.

Fraud Alert Updates: David. M. Sullivan, Rhode Island State Tax Administrator, is warning Rhode Islanders of a fraudulent email scam that demands payment for corporate taxes due.

In the email, which has a subject line of “Payment notice,” someone claiming to be “Head of the Rhode Island Department of Taxation” advises the recipient, “Good afternoon. You has the penalty for corporate tax.” (Director Sullivan notes that the email contains several grammatical errors). The email includes attachments.

Do not open these emails. Delete these emails immediately. Someone may be trying to steal your identity. The attachment may also contain a virus, or a link that will ask you to divulge personal information. Director Sullivan notes that the Division sends its billings by mail, not via email. Several other states, and the IRS, have reported e-mail tax fraud scams recently. If you have any questions about billing from the Division of Taxation, call 574-8829.

Once again, National Grid customers in New England are being targeted by utility bill scammers.

Scammers, claiming to be from National Grid, are calling consumers and threatening customers with immediate service shut-off unless they provide credit card or bank account information that can be used to settle unpaid bills (many of which are not even owed). Reports of this scam have surfaced in several states and have previously been reported in Rhode Island.

National Grid does contact customers regarding account balances by phone, offering several payment options to customers that have fallen behind on their utility bills. Customers can also arrange payment by check, credit card or debit card if they speak directly to a customer service representative. Payments can also be made by credit card or debit card without a representative’s assistance.

But before making arrangements, customers should verify they are speaking with a National Grid representative. One way to do this is to commit to memory the last five digits of their National Grid account number to memory and ask the caller to provide those numbers. If the caller can’t provide the information, it’s doubtful that the caller is a National Grid representative. Hang up immediately.

For questions about your account balance, or to make payment arrangements, call the customer contact center at (800) 322-3223.

Be alert. Be aware. Don’t be a victim.

CORRECTION: National Grid does contact customers by phone regarding account balances. The original version of this column stated the company's policy incorrectly.

CORRECTION: The estimate of $60 billion in Medicare fraud comes from a number of federal officials, but not from the General Accounting Office, to whom it was attributed in the original version of this story.
