
The Qatarisation policy of the  Energy and Industry sector focuses on quality rather than quantity, HE  the Minister of Energy and Industry Dr Mohamed bin Saleh al-Sada said  yesterday.

HE Dr al-Sada, who chaired the 14th Annual  Qatarisation Review Meeting of the Energy and Industry Sector, stressed  that Qatarisation has never been simply about numbers but rather about  capabilities, qualification, performance, competence, and productivity.

“Our objective is quality Qatarisation, a  process which extends from education, to HR policies, training, and  career development,” he said.

“The development of human capital has never  been as important as it is in today’s competitive world. And if we are  to build a knowledge-based economy, we must never lose sight of the  human capital value chain, namely recruitment, assessment, training,  career development, and retention,” Dr al-Sada said.

The Minister also called for the development  of a capable Qatari workforce through proper education and relevant  training. “I would like to reaffirm the need for a responsive  educational system that matches its deliverables with the vocational and  technical needs of the energy market,” he stressed.

HE Dr al-Sada and HE al-Nuaimi with Qatarisation Crystal Award winner.

The meeting was attended by HE the Minister  of Administrative Development Dr Issa Saad al-Jafali al-Nuaimi,  Professor Sheikha al-Misnad, President of Qatar University, senior  executives from 41 participating companies and representatives from  Qatar’s education community.

He discussed the strategies and ideas on how  to engage employees that could improve company Qatarisation plans  through sound, practical leadership techniques, which are essential in  today’s social media environment and the transformations that are  occurring.

His interventions focused on creating the capability in companies to deliver results through world-class leadership.

This part of the meeting was moderated by Abdulla Laram, Corporate Training Manager at Qatar Petroleum.

During the event, awards were also presented  by HE Dr al-Sada and HE al-Nuaimi to recognise companies that exhibited  Qatarisation excellence during 2013.

The recipients of the coveted Qatarisation  Crystal Awards were Oryx GTL Limited for Support and Liaison with the  Education Sector; Qatargas Operating Company Limited for Supporting  Qatarisation; Dolphin Energy Limited for Support for Training and  Development; Qatar Chemical Company Ltd. for Supporting Student  Sponsorships; and RasGas Company Limited for Best Qatarisation Progress.

Annual Qatarisation Certificates were also  presented to Qatar Aluminium Limited for Support and Liaison with the  Education Sector; Qatar Gas Transport Company Ltd (Nakilat) for  Supporting Qatarisation; Bunduq Company Limited for Support for Training  and Development; and Occidental Petroleum of Qatar Ltd for Supporting  Student Sponsorships.

HE Dr al-Sada and HE al-Nuaimi also honoured  Qatar University with the annual “Partnership Award of Appreciation,” which was accepted by Professor Sheikha al-Misnad, President of Qatar  University, in recognition of their active partnership with the sector  by exchanging knowledge and expertise and providing a rich resource of  Qatari candidates in support of company Qatarisation plans.

The Minister also bestowed special  recognition to Dr Ibrahim Saleh al-Naimi, President of the Community  College of Qatar, Dr Hassan R al-Derham, Vice-President for Research of  Qatar University, and Hassan Mohamed al-Hammadi, Executive Director for  Human Resources of Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community  Development, for their contribution to the Qatarisation awards process  as members of the Advisory Board responsible for winner selection.

I agree to receive newsletters from Gulf Times.
