
As a new round of talks is set for 16-20 June, it is important not to lose this opportunity, Iran's foreign minister says.

Tehran (AsiaNews/Agencies) - An agreement on Iran's nuclear programme is still possible, despite the differences that emerged in Vienna last week, said Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, after his meeting with the 5+1 group (the U.S., Russia, China, Britain, France, plus Germany), which ended on Saturday without tangible results.

For years, the international community has suspected that Iran has a military nuclear programme. Conversely, Tehran continues to claim that its nuclear energy programme is for entirely peaceful purposes.

With the talks, now in their fourth round, the 5+1 group wants Iran to scale back its nuclear activities, agreeing to a specific number and type of centrifuges used in uranium enrichment.

For its part, Tehran is hoping that negotiations would lead to an end to the sanctions imposed by the United Nations, the United States and the European Union, which are having devastating effects on its economy and the population.

So far, by agreeing to the talks, Iran saw an easing of the sanctions until July 20.

This "Opportunity shouldn't be missed again," said Zarif, like in 2005 when the chance for a deal was lost.

The State of Israel and some US leaders are opposed to a deal along with radical elements in Iran's parliament.

Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said that the next round of talks will be held in Vienna between 16 and 20 June.

The head of the Chaldean Church is grateful for the AsiaNews campaign and hopes that "this chain of solidarity will reach far and wide”. Helping refugees to remain in Iraq. But many want to flee abroad. The bishop of Amadiyah where thousands of displaced people have found haven in churches and homes: We also help the Arabs (Muslims), and Yazidis, for free and without looking at our confessional differences.

For Mgr Vincent Zhu Weifang, from the official Church, the campaign of destruction is increasing social instability. It is real persecution against the Christian faith. The bishop apologises for failing to intervene sooner.  He was hoping that the campaign would end quickly. Catholics and Protestants suffer injuries as they attempt to defend their sacred buildings. For priests in Wenzhou, the campaign is unfair and touches buildings that have all the right papers. Such "stupid acts" by the government are undermining social harmony.
