
Jakarta. The management of a North Jakarta preschool at the center of an alleged sexual assault against a three-and-a-half-year-old boy has strongly denied the allegation, saying it trusts the teacher in question and will continue to employ her.

Santa Monica Play Group came under public scrutiny after the parents of one of its students recently filed a report against a teacher of the preschool to the police, accusing her of molesting their son. The North Jakarta Education Agency subsequently ordered Santa Monica shut down, saying it found that the preschool had in fact not secured a permit to operate.

Lydia added that parents of other students also did not believe the allegation, saying they had signed a petition stating their support for the school and teachers.

A press statement released by the preschool management on Saturday added that it trusted the teacher completely because there was no way that the alleged sexual assault could have taken place in Santa Monica’s campus, citing “aquarium-like” classrooms and nannies employed to escort students to restrooms allowing for no such assaults to take place.

The statement adds that the alleged victim had looked cheerful as usual during the past three months, as opposed to the statements from the boy’s parents saying he had grown more withdrawn and complained of body pains.

“Media reports have quoted the victim’s parents as saying that their child had been a victim of repeated sexual assaults,” the statement said. “The fact is, during one to two-and-a-half hours of school time, the school management never heard him screaming nor saw him crying.

Lydia read out a statement from the teacher, who also denied the allegation, saying it broke her heart.

Police on Friday said they had questioned the alleged victim’s mother and two other teachers as witnesses in the case, and would interrogate the teacher at the center of the allegation next week. No one has been named a suspect in the case so far. Laboratory tests have indicated an injury to the boy’s anus.

“We’re also trying to access CCTV footage from the classrooms,” Jakarta Police spokesman Sr. Comr. Rikwanto said.
