
The sad truth now facing confessing Anglicans who love the Church of England and long to see it serving the Lord Jesus Christ with courage and honour is that the Archbishop of Canterbury has forfeited the moral authority to address the Nigerian Government over the horrific kidnapping of Christian girls by Islamist terror group Boko Haram. His collaboration with UK homosexualist campaign group Stonewall over new 'anti-homophobic bullying' guidance for Church of England schools compromises his moral standing both with Nigerian Christians and Muslims.

When he announced the new guidance last week, Archbishop Welby was careful not to mention Stonewall but the Church of England's Board of Education certainly consulted these highly politically influential lobbyists in preparing the materials to be used with children under eleven in primary schools.

Stonewall's hand in the new guidance is evident from the warmth of its applause. Luke Tryl, Stonewall's head of education, pronounced: "This is a hugely welcome step forward by the Church of England, and an important recognition that lesbian, gay and bisexual people are an important part of the fabric of modern Britain. We look forward to working with church schools to help them implement the new guidance and eradicate the blight of homophobic bullying from all of our schools."

Whilst any Bible-believing Christian would and should condemn bullying of any kind, the obvious danger with this new Stonewall-approved programme in church schools is that it could brand as a 'homophobic bully' any young person who speaks out against sexual immorality as the Word of God in the Bible defines it.

Andrea Williams, Christian Concern CEO, was characteristically forthright in her condemnation of the Stonewall collaboration: "What does the Archbishop of Canterbury think he is doing?  Is he aware that he is playing into the hands of a militant, gay lobby group which has no qualms in targeting Christians and forcing them out of their jobs? When is he going to stand up for the Christians who have been bullied and punished for speaking of Jesus in modern Britain?"

Evangelical Christians are not alone in their concerns about homosexualist propaganda in British schools. Muslims do not want to see their children brainwashed with the dogmas of the permissive society either. Last week, government inspectors beat a retreat from a Muslim primary school in Luton because parents objected to children as young as nine being questioned in private about their attitude to homosexuality.

In the wake of the Stonewall collaboration, the Nigerian Government would be advised to distance itself from the Archbishop of Canterbury. Whilst on the face of it he has expertise and knowledge of Nigeria, even a hint that it is taking advice from a church leader whose praises Stonewall is singing could compromise the Government's efforts to win hearts and minds against Boko Haram insurgency. Goodwill on the ground in this strongly religious society is very necessary for effective counter-insurgency by Nigeria's security forces.

So far, the Nigerian President Dr Goodluck Jonathan has rejected calls from media-prominent Westerners including Archbishop Welby to negotiate with Boko Haram. He has rightly pointed out that releasing Islamist militants from prison in exchange for the girls would unleash 'dangerous men' on Nigeria who would then commit further evil. Almighty God willing, Nigeria's Government at both Federal and State level can resist morally compromised Western pressure to negotiate with Boko Haram and will fulfill its God-given responsibility to the Nigerian people with more effective and better co-ordinated military action.

To ensure, in the Apostle Paul's phrase, that it 'beareth not the sword in vain', a public statement from the Nigerian Government specifically rejecting Archbishop Welby's call for negotiation with Boko Haram is arguably a necessary move in the light of spiritually terrible developments in the Church of England.

© Virtueonline 2014 all rights reserved.

570 Twin Lakes Rd.,
