
Queensland Premier Campbell Newman and Prime Minister Tony Abbott have discussed the federal budget "one-on-one" during a flight to Rockhampton.

Mr Newman and Mr Abbott travelled together to attend today's funeral of cattle industry figure Graeme Acton in central Queensland .

The Premier says he believes Mr Abbott has listened to his concerns about ongoing federal funding for health and education.

Last week, Mr Newman said he was "hopping mad" about $80 billion worth of budget cuts to health and education over the next decade.

Yesterday, he was one of the state and territory leaders who met to form a united front in condemning federal budget cuts to schools and hospitals.

Mr Newman says he spoke to Mr Abbott this morning and both agree that clarifying federal and state responsibilities is the key to resolving the issue.

"That's something I know the Prime Minister will be talking about a lot - I support that 100 per cent and that is the way forward - that is how we will fix it," he said.

"We must fix Australia and the federation.

"Once we do that, these smaller problems, these budgetary arguments, will disappear and I'm very confident we can do that.

"I believe we can work through these things because we do have that positive relationship.

"But we're not giving anything up because Queenslanders expect us to fight for the necessary things that the people in this growing state expect."

Some Queensland Ministers have already heeded Mr Newman's call for voters to join the campaign against Commonwealth budget cuts.

Mr Newman yesterday urged all Queenslanders to contact their federal MP and voice their anger about budget cuts.

State Transport Minister Scott Emerson says he has already spoken to his local member.

"The Premier's standing up for Queensland, doing exactly the right thing," he said.

Education Minister John-Paul Langbroek says long-term school funding needs to be secured.

"We've got four years of education funding, but a fiscal cliff after that," he said.

Housing Minister Tim Mander says he also has concerns.

"It could threaten our homelessness funding in the future, also funding for affordable housing," he said.

Mr Newman yesterday warned that cuts over the next decade would mean 1,700-fewer hospital beds, or the equivalent of closing the Royal Brisbane and Princess Alexandra hospitals.

However, Health Minister Lawrence Springborg says the system can absorb the immediate impact.

"The real impact for us comes in 2017/18," he said.

"The real issue for us is the long-term aspects that come from and impacts that come from uncertainty with health funding.

"Certainly there will be some impact, but we will be doing everything we can to insulate Queenslanders from that.

"We'll be able to do that in many ways because ... because of the good work of our hospital boards and this government over the last couple of years.

"We're now in a much better position to be able to reduce the impact of these cuts on Queensland patients."

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
