
The Natrona County School Board at last week’s regular meeting briefly addressed the defeat of a $33 million school bond election, saying it remains committed to funding their innovative academy programs.

The board will address how to acquire the specialized equipment needed to open the Center for Advanced and Professional Studies (CAPS) during its budget talks later this summer, along with security needs at district schools.

“The board is going to spend some time over the next several months thinking about the general budget for next year,” board chairman Dave Applegate said. “We’re in the midst of our budget process, and in that process we’ll evaluate the potential for some carryover in operational funds and the potential use of those to address some of the bond needs.

The CAPS equipment was slated for $4.8 million from the bond issue, and included basic items such as desks and chairs, along with high end technology like laser cutters for its Architecture, Construction, Manufacturing and Engineering Academy, and training equipment for its Health Sciences and Social Services Academy.

The academy program is a first in Wyoming, with four areas of study that will go beyond the norm in high school curriculum. Because many of the advanced courses are above what the state-funding model provides (and are classified as “enhancements”), the equipment and instructional materials must be financed by the local school district.

The state, however, did approve the CAPS building in funding the district’s $280 million high school renovation program. The groundbreaking for the facility occurred earlier this month with a completion date set for 2016.

The trustees addressed the bond issue during closing comments at their May 12 meeting.

Driggers then noted the board’s offer, made that evening, of entering into a long-term contract with Superintendent Steve Hopkins.

Trustee Kevin Christopherson outlined his view of the academy program, saying it’s an opportunity to give Natrona County students a better chance.

One of the possible options to fund the CAPS equipment could be some kind of lease/purchase arrangement. The board at one time had hoped to build facilities, such as pools, using lease/purchase. But that direction was nixed by the Wyoming attorney general, though it might still be able to be utilized for other things.

“The attorney general made it clear that we can’t use lease/purchase for any facility-related enhancements, but it may be possible to use lease/purchase for equipment,” Applegate remarked.

Another major, and perhaps the most contentious, component of the bond issue was $13.5 million to rebuild pools. The NCHS swimming pool will be demolished this summer as part of the reconstruction program, and plans called for the renovation of the existing Kelly Walsh pool. Applegate said the Kelly Walsh pool will continue to be used, but with few improvements.

The district had hoped to continue the swimming curriculum at both KW and NCHS, but the NCHS program is apparently going to have to be reconsidered. The competitive swim team at NCHS, which has long been quite small compared to KW’s, could possibly continue in an arrangement somewhat like the Nordic ski program, where both teams practice together, Applegate said.

Copyright 2014 CasperJournal.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
