
[Updated] Various schools around the island showed support for the ongoing #BringBackOurGirls campaign on Friday [May 16], with students from Warwick Academy, Bermuda High School for Girls, Saltus Grammar School, and St. George’s Prep all taking the time to show solidarity for the almost 300 school girls kidnapped in Africa.

The campaign aims to support the return of the girls, who were kidnapped from a school in Nigeria during the predawn hours of April 15, 2014 by the terrorist group Boko Haram.

The Bermuda High School for Girls [BHS] showed solidarity for the #BringBackOurGirls campaign. In class time, students in the Secondary department investigated ways a hashtag can help a cause and brainstormed ideas for what they could do to help bring back the Nigerian girls.

In the Primary department, students at the youngest grades discussed how important education for girls is and how there are still some places in the world where girls are not allowed to seek an education.

Every class that was in school made a poster with #BringBackOurGirls and was photographed. A collage of all the photos was made [pictured above] and will be displayed on various social media outlets, including the BHS Facebook page.

Warwick Academy students also took the time to show their solidarity with the kidnapped school girls, putting that line of thinking into action on Friday morning.

Finally, students from Saltus Grammer School got into the act, holding a moment of silence for the girls in an effort to reflect on the situation and show their support, while St. George’s Prep students also took the time to discuss and dissect the situation.

Update 11.02am: Middle and high school students from Mount Saint Agnes Academy held a prayer service on Friday, May 16 in support of the #BringBackOurGirls campaign with 276 candles lit, one for each of the missing girls, and each of the participating students receiving a red ribbon as a reminder to continue to think of and pray for the girls’ safe return.

#Hashtags don't bring back children and "likes" don't change the world.

This was a waste of our childrens' time.  If they want to help, go down to kenya and get your hands dirty!

Its only in the western world that we sit around twiddling our thumbs in prayer or some mundane rituail instead of acting and getting the job done.

Think about it.

U have no heart.

I am a child, and i think that ur comment is pathetic. The fact that u can't realise that we are raising awareness about the topic is terrible.

I am a child, and I am assuming that u r an adult, and I realsise how this can help and u dont- terrible.

Obviously, we can't go over to Kenya, or else we'll be kidnapped 2.

I am soory that u cannot realis the value of this.

I am learning from this that I am very fortunate that I wasn't taken away, and that I live in a safeenviroment. That is what we r trying 2 do.

We want 2 raise awareness about the topic, and also make people realise how fortunate we r.

If you had children- maybe u do- u would not want them 2 be taken away. U should b grateful that you live in a safe place.

This is what we teach our children.

Hopefully you'll see that taking action is better than taking pictures.

I am so sorry, Rayki, that you did not see the purpose of any of this.  It is not possible for school children in Bermuda to board a plane, fly to Nigeria and rescue hundreds of girls from a terrorist organization. If you can do this yourself, please let us know and I will happily donate to your trip. School children are learning about what is happening in their world (socials/geography), how social media has influenced events (technology) and what small part they can play in their world.  No, they cannot get the girls back, but they can spread the word about what is happening.  This teaches them compassion  and working together to show support on global issues that affect children their age around the world.

I am also sorry that you have never experienced the power of prayer.  Perhaps if you spent more time at it instead of twiddling your thumbs and condemning the efforts others you would be a little less bitter.  I will pray for you!

Obviously you have no clue to the purposes of social media so here is a quick overview for you.

Social media is used to gage the response to specific event, promotion, product or service.  The #hashtag allows researchers to group like responses.  So #bringbackourgirls does nothing but tell a group of researchers, who are working for powers that do not have humanity's best interest at heart, how the mindless consumers of the western hemisphere feel about an event that MAY NOT HAVE OCCURRED!  Are you in kenya? Look into false flag operations.

The media block of Iceland where their people rewrote their constitution jailed bankers and now have the best economy in the world.  If you don't have someone in iceland talking to you, you're not going to find anything about it.  Google iceland, you won't find anything after 2011.

The war in eastern europe that mr. Obama has planned since 2008.  Latvia and Estonia were already in play years before russia annexed criema.

All I'm saying is our kids could have spent that time doing something better than buying into the media bs.

Idiot.
