
THE Prime Minister was in Harlow today (Monday, May 19) to meet apprentices at Harlow College.

David Cameron, who arrived with an entourage of bodyguards and advisors, was also given a tour of the new Charles Kao University Technical College during the two-hour visit.

But having spoken to apprentices in the engineering department, Mr Cameron also gave his opinion on some of the biggest issues facing Harlow – including how to tackle the town’s housing shortage, street lighting and the upcoming local and European elections.

Speaking to the Star, Mr Cameron described the visit to Harlow College as “fascinating”.

He said: “Obviously very keen to support Robert and the work that he is doing locally and he’s pushed really hard to get this University Technical College here. The building is going ahead well and it’s going to open this September. It’s got a full state of students coming and I think it will be a major addition to Harlow’s educational landscape, and a really positive one for young people, parents, and local employers.

In Harlow, recent figures show that first time buyers can only afford to buy eight per cent of homes in the town and more than 3,000 people are waiting for a home on the council’s housing register.

When asked how to tackle this and more importantly, where that housing should go, Mr Cameron said: “Schemes like the Help to Buy scheme are actually about making sure builders bring forward more homes. It was put to me very clearly that builders won’t build, if buyers can’t buy. And the buyers couldn’t buy because the lenders wouldn’t lend so I thought it was right for the Government to step in and we will help hardworking people in Harlow and elsewhere who can’t afford a mortgage but can’t get the deposit together to be able to buy a home or a flat.

The Prime Minister insisted that more homes need to be built and that local councils would have a say in where it would go.

Ahead next week’s local and European elections, Mr Cameron told residents to “think carefully” before voting.

He said: “I want Conservatives to be elected onto the local council because they will provide better services at a lower cost and you’ve seen Labour in control and the council tax go up.

“I’d give a very clear message to the people in Harlow - please think very carefully before you put your cross in the box and choose a Conservative councillor that will work hard for you locally rather than UKIP who want to make a protest about Europe, but won’t do a good job running your council. If you look around the country you can see something like one in ten UKIP councillors who got elected last year have given up.
