
BANDKOK ( CNN ) -- The Thai Army declared martial law throughout the country Tuesday, Lt. Gen. Nipat Thonglek told CNN.

"The Army aims to maintain peace, order and public safety for all groups and all parties," a ticker running on the Army's television channel said. "People are urged not to panic, and can carry on their business as usual. Declaring martial law is not a coup d'etat."

Martial law went into effect at 3 a.m. on Tuesday, the ticker said.

All Thai TV stations are being guarded by the military, Thai public television announced, showing pictures of soldiers and armored vehicles taking positions outside broadcast facilities in the country's capital.

The developments come days after the head of the army issued a stern warning after political violence had surged in the country's capital.

"If the situation turns more violent, it could lead to riots," Army chief Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha said in a national address last week. "The Army will have to use military forces to resolve the situation for peace and order."

Political tensions have been running high in Thailand. Supporters and opponents of the country's government have staged mass protests in recent days, and caretaker Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra was removed from office, along with nine cabinet ministers, by a top court earlier this month.

Nipat said the move to impose martial law is not a coup, adding that the precise restrictions of martial law were being worked out.

The government's "red shirt" support base, many of whom hail from the country's rural north and northeast, view Yingluck's ouster as a "judicial coup" and have been protesting what they consider an unfair bias by many of the country's institutions against their side.

Anti-government protesters are seeking a new government -- but not through elections, which the opposition Democrat Party has boycotted, arguing the alleged corruption of their political rivals makes widespread reform necessary before any meaningful vote can be held.
