
China is sending five ships to evacuate more of its citizens from Vietnam following a wave of anti-Chinese riots.

The Beijing government has already evacuated more than 3,000 nationals. The first ship set sail yesterday, while 16 critically injured Chinese left Vietnam on a chartered flight, said state-run Xinhua news agency.

Two Chinese workers have been killed and dozens more injured in unrest over a Chinese oil rig in disputed waters.

The Vietnamese government called for an end to the protests on Saturday with officials saying “illegal acts” would be halted as they threatened security.

But dissident groups have urged people to continue to rally in major cities.

Officials said anti-China protests had been broken up in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.

China’s decision to deploy a huge oil rig on 1 May in a disputed area of the South China Sea sparked the protests, after Vietnamese vessels entered the area, where they remain in a standoff with Chinese naval ships.

Both countries are run by Communist regimes which have been pursuing a free market capitalist agenda since the 1990s while retaining state control of the security apparatus and key sectors. Last weekend, Vietnam permitted anti-China protests that drew thousands of people, a rare step that allowed it to amplify state anger against Beijing. Dissident groups joined the protests, and by Tuesday and Wednesday, riots had led to factories being burned down by mobs who believed they were Chinese owned, though many were in fact Taiwanese.

Yesterday in Ho Chi Minh City, police detained several demonstrators after dragging them from a park close to the Ho Chi Minh cathedral. Authorities in Hanoi closed off streets and a park near the Chinese ­embassy.

“I want to send a message that if we don’t stop China today, tomorrow it will be too late,” said demonstrator Dao Minh Chu, as he was herded away from the park near China’s embassy, where last week around 500 people gathered without interference from state police.

China has demanded Hanoi protect Chinese people inside Vietnam, which is heavily dependent on Beijing economically. Hundreds of Chinese have left by commercial flights and across the land border into Cambodia, although there has been calm since Thursday.

Yesterday, China said it dispatched a passenger ship capable of carrying 1,000 people to Vietnam, the first of five vessels it planned to send. China’s foreign ministry said two charter flights carrying more than 290 Chinese employees from affected businesses arrived in Chengdu in south-west China yesterday afternoon. They included more than 100 injured.

The ministry also said that the government would suspend some of its bilateral exchange plans with Vietnam and that it was advising Chinese citizens not to visit Vietnam.

Beijing spokesman Hong Lei said the violence that has resulted in Chinese casualties and property losses had “damaged the atmosphere and conditions for exchanges and co-operation between China and Vietnam”.

A Taiwanese steel mill attacked on Wednesday employed 1,000 Chinese workers.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
