
HRH the Premier yesterday issued directives on this when he chaired the weekly Cabinet meeting at Gudaibiya Palace.

On the International Museums Day, the Premier directed that the Museum of Modern Art be built in Muharraq, highlighting the role of museums in preserving peoples' heritage and identity.

"The Premier lauded the pivotal role played by the Culture Minister in preserving the kingdom's rich historical and cultural heritage and promoting it globally," Cabinet secretary general Dr Yaser bin Essa Al Nasser said in a statement.

The Cabinet reviewed issues related to labour and trade unions' affairs, as well as efforts exerted by the government to support trade unions and enable them to assume their duties of improving the work environment and motivating workers to be more productive and creative.

The Premier requested the Labour Minister to co-ordinate with sides concerned to implement the government's directives aiming to benefit workers and trade unions.

He reviewed actions taken on his directives to ministries and government departments to allocate time to meet citizens and increase channels of communication with them to be informed about their grievances and directed to implement mechanisms that allow them to meet officials to address their problems  according to the law.

The Cabinet reviewed a memo presented by the Finance Minister on the consolidated final account of the state for 2013.

That the actual revenues increased by 5.5 per cent, expenditures went down by 14pc  and the actual deficit was 63pc  below the expected one, the Cabinet learned.

The Cabinet tasked the Finance Minister with preparing the state consolidated final account as soon as possible.

A draft law on amending some provisions of the Municipalities Law, proposed by parliament, was referred back with a memo including the government's opinion.

The Cabinet referred a number of agreements and memoranda of understanding signed between Bahrain and Tajikistan to the ministerial committee for legal affairs.

It also reviewed and endorsed a memo submitted by the Minister of State for Information Affairs and official government spokeswoman Sameera Rajab on withdrawing a draft law on amending some provisions of a decree-law on regulating the Press, printing and publications, Dr Al Nasser said.
