
The family of a Forest Hill five-year-old who drowned in an Egyptian hotel pool are still waiting for answers, one year after her death.

Chloe Johnson died after straying into a wave pool at the Coral Sea Waterworld Hotel in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el Sheikh on May 17 last year.

The family say there were no lifeguards at the pool and they were "left to their own devices", with dad Tony having to perform CPR in a failed attempt to save his daughter.

And, one year later, the family say they have had no information from the Egyptian authorities, holiday company First Choice have been unsupportive and, with the lack of information from abroad, there is no news on when an inquest might be held.

Gran April Johnson, 68, from Welling, said: "We've still had no input from Egypt, even First Choice haven't even rung us or anything at all. The last time they rung Tony and his partner was a couple of days after it happened."

She said: "It's upsetting about Chloe and we'll never forget her and we've still  got the coroner's court and everything to go through yet so there's no closure that yet so we can grieve properly."

Mrs Johnson said it was important to highlight the issue as many pools abroad are understaffed. She said: "A child's life is worth more than a lifeguard's wages.

"If we can publicise, with the holidays coming up, for people to just be careful out there. Just make sure there are sufficient lifeguards where you're going."

Mr Johnson, 44, laid flowers at a memorial bench to his daughter at Kevin Grove Primary School last week. He told News Shopper: "They need to do something. No one's got back to us, there's been nothing at all."

A spokesman for First Choice said: "First Choice has been offering the family support since this tragic incident occurred. We have given them access to independent counselling and the immediate family were provided with contact details for our dedicated welfare team.

"The investigation is in the hands of the coroner and we are cooperating fully, because of this it would be inappropriate for us to comment further."

"If we can publicise, with the holidays coming up, for people to just be careful out there. Just make sure there are sufficient lifeguards where you're going."

No, no no, this is a dangerous comment. Stay with your children yourself.  Watch them yourself. Keep them safe yourself.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
