
THE government must set in motion radical changes to procedures of accountability before salary increases for Members of Parliament are considered, according to Free National Movement Deputy Chairman Dr Duane Sands.

Speaking to The Tribune yesterday, Dr Sands said the Bahamian economy’s condition is simply too fragile to prioritise higher wages for MPs.

His words were in direct response to Deputy Prime Minister Philip “Brave” Davis’ comments that parliamentarians should receive more money to curtail the temptation of doing things that are not right.

Mr Davis told a reporter that: “(it would) remove the temptation for politicians to do things that are not right. Because if they (MPs) are earning a living by doing this, then there would be no need for them to do anything else, I think that’s what the Bahamian public has to understand.

Dr Sands pinpointed the performance of MPs over the last two years and said their conduct does not warrant an increase.

“When you look at the performance of parliamentarians and the nonsense that goes on in the House, in addition to when they don’t show up to start the House on time, the number of constituency offices that are not open and the MPs that are available to constituents, there needs to be a radically different culture for parliamentarians before you can say they deserve a raise.

“Let me be very clear: if you are talking about benefits to the Bahamian people like community development, a case can be made.

Public discourse on the matter was reignited last week after leader of government business in the House, Dr Bernard Nottage, announced that a select committee recommended a review of MP’s salaries. The select committee report also suggested the construction of a new Parliamentary complex. A review of the Deputy Speaker’s salary was also ordered.

The House Speaker has an $80,000 per year salary while his deputy receives $32,000. An MP’s salary is $28,000 a year.

Officials have not made any suggestions of how much the increases would cost taxpayers.

"Voodoo Man" Davis should be ashamed of himself................ the majority of MPs are people of means, many are millionnaires and most have secure forms of income.

If an MP needs a lot of money (more than $50,000) to represent their constituents, it can only mean one or two things. Either the constituents look to the MPs to "take care o them" OR the MPs use money as a form of "bribery".

Also, how many of the current MPs currently adhere to the annual disclosure act that is law? Let's have them comply with the current disclosure law and then we can discuss salary increases.

"Deputy Prime Minister Philip “Brave” Davis’ comments that parliamentarians should receive more money to curtail the temptation of doing things that are not right."

Mr. Davis also wants us to believe that he himself, Perry Christie and Hubert Ingraham knew nothing about oil exploration companies until they were exposed deeply intertwined with oil exploration stakeholders in 2012.

I second BayStreet23: The annual disclosure law needs to be strictly enforced. Noncompliance means that the MP loses his/her seat.

But also all taxes, duties, fines and utilities should be paid up to date and publicly disclosed, and those who do not comply or are behind should lose their seat immediately.

I'm also curios as to what the law is when it comes to MPs holding other jobs while in office. Are they allowed to? Because they all certainly do.

this man is beyond disgusting.

This is the third shameful statement coming from this man. I pray PGC dissolves parliament soon. Passing the baton is not an option.

READ ABOUT IT HERE!

Across the inky-blue Gulf Stream from Florida, near the sheer edge of the Great Bahama Bank, a new island is emerging from the sea. Although it bears the appealing name Ocean Cay, this new island is not, and never will be, a palm-fringed paradise of the sort the Bahamian government promotes in travel ads. No brace of love doves would ever choose Ocean Cay for a honeymoon; no beauty in a brief bikini would waste her sweetness on such desert air. Of all the 3,000 islands and islets and cays in the Bahamas, Ocean Cay is the least lovely. It is a flat, roughly rectangular island which, when completed, will be 200 acres and will resemble a barren swatch of the Sahara. Ocean Cay does not need allure. It is being dredged up from the seabed by the Dillingham Corporation of Hawaii for an explicit purpose that will surely repel more tourists than it will attract. In simplest terms, Ocean Cay is a big sandpile on which the Dillingham Corporation will pile more sand that it will subsequently sell on the U.S. mainland. The sand that Dillingham is dredging is a specific form of calcium carbonate called aragonite, which is used primarily in the manufacture of cement and as a soil neutralizer. For the past 5,000 years or so, with the flood of the tide, waters from the deep have moved over the Bahamian shallows, usually warming them in the process so that some of the calcium carbonate in solution precipitated out. As a consequence, today along edges of the Great Bahama Bank there are broad drifts, long bars and curving barchans of pure aragonite. Limestone, the prime source of calcium carbonate, must be quarried, crushed and recrushed, and in some instances refined before it can be utilized. By contrast, the aragonite of the Bahamian shallows is loose and shifty stuff, easily sucked up by a hydraulic dredge from a depth of one or two fathoms. The largest granules in the Bahamian drifts are little more than a millimeter in diameter. Because of its fineness and purity, the Bahamian aragonite can be used, agriculturally or industrially, without much fuss and bother. It is a unique endowment. There are similar aragonite drifts scattered here and there in the warm shallows of the world, but nowhere as abundantly as in the Bahamas. In exchange for royalties, the Dillingham Corporation has exclusive rights in four Bahamian areas totaling 8,235 square miles. In these areas there are about four billion cubic yards—roughly 7.5 billion long tons—of aragonite. At rock-bottom price the whole deposit is worth more than $15 billion. An experienced dredging company like Dillingham should be able to suck up 10 million tons a year, which will net the Bahamian government an annual royalty of about $600,000.

Is this National Service or a JOB?????????????? Brave Davis deserves to define where this generation of parliamentarians view their role in Bahamian governance.

THE BAHAMAIAN PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM IS BROKEN..................... NEEDS REFORM...... BUT THE CONSTITUTIONAL COMMISSION DOESNT THINK SO.
