
Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa emphasized the integral role communication had to play in stabilizing relations between Vietnam and China, following the recent race riots in Vietnam and the evacuation of thousands of Chinese nationals from the country.

Marty told The Jakarta Post that the ministry had been involved in attempting to stabilize the situation between the two countries.

The foreign minister himself has communicated with his counterparts — China’s Wang Yi and Vietnam’s Pham Binh Minh — to find a solution to a situation that not only threatens both states, but also regional stability.

“If we cannot stabilize the situation, it could get out of hand and the sense of crisis could ripple out,” he said on the sidelines of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty conference in Jakarta, on Monday.

Although Marty acknowledged that territorial conflicts still existed in the 21st century, he urged both sides to exert restraint and respect the 2002 Declaration on the Conduct of the Parties in the South China Sea (DOC) in order to prevent the situation from escalating and affecting other countries in the region.

“[This situation] affects us [Indonesia] because of the uncertainty it brings. So, it is not a choice of whether or not we can settle the conflict, but we must work together in order to get the South China Sea situation back under control,” he said.

Despite regional encouragement for further communication between both sides, ties between Vietnam and China seem to deteriorating.

China deployed an oil rig to a disputed patch of the South China Sea on May 1, triggering fury from Vietnam. In order to counter this, Vietnamese authorities sent ships to confront the rig and tried to rally international support against China, which claims most of the South China Sea.

Following the standoff, anti-China riots erupted in Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi, resulting in the death of two Chinese nationals and injuring around 240 last week.

China’s state media said that as of May 17, more than 3,000 of its citizens had already returned home on ships deployed by the government. On Sunday, The Associated Press reported that 290 more Chinese nationals were evacuated, more than 100 of them injured, 16 critically, during the riots.

According to Agence France-Presse, almost 2,000 Chinese citizens were evacuated from riot-hit Vietnam by sea on Monday, with another two ships following, as Hanoi stifled fresh protests and foreign investors counted the cost.

The passenger vessels Wuzhishan and Tongguling left the central Vietnamese port of Vung Ang, each with more than 900 evacuees on board, China’s official news agency Xinhua reported.

They were among four Chinese ships — each with a capacity of about 1,000 people — sent to Vietnam, Xinhua said, with another two on standby.

Workers voiced relief as they boarded the vessels, the agency reported, with some declaring: “Finally home”.

Hanoi initially lauded “patriotic” displays by its citizens, but has back pedalled furiously after the violence — which hit a number of non-Chinese facilities — badly stained the country’s image as a safe destination for the much-needed foreign investment.

Economist Nguyen Quang A said the government must move swiftly and decisively to restore confidence among foreign investors already complaining about corruption, bureaucracy, a lack of legal and regulatory transparency and other issues. “The government has done some things, but it’s not enough,” said Quang A.

Authorities have pledged to help enterprises rebuild and restore their operations, and said more than 300 suspects had been arrested.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
