
THE Second Minister of Finance yesterday met Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong after he became the fourth Bruneian to visit the city-state under the Lee Kuan Yew Exchange Fellowship.

The Singapore High Commission in Brunei stated in a press release that the minister would be meeting Singaporean Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean, Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, and other senior officials.

YB Pehin Dato Hj Abd Rahman would also be visiting a range of agencies in Singapore, including the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Trade & Industry, Ministry of Manpower, and the Ministry of National Development.

The one-north business park and the Social Service Office at Choa Chu Kang was also part of the itinerary.

The fellowship was introduced in 1991 whereby outstanding individuals are invited to take part in high-level exchange visits to Singapore.

The individuals are chosen on the basis of their proven track record or extraordinary potential to contribute to the development of their nations, as well as promote international understanding and goodwill, the high commission said.

YB Pehin Dato Hj Abd Abdul Rahman was appointed as Minister of Finance II at the Prime Minister’s Office in 2005, after a long and distinguished career in various economic agencies.

The Singapore High Commission in a press release stated that the eight-day visit that began yesterday underscored the excellent state of Singapore-Brunei relations.

For news videos and features, visit  this page  and drop by next time to see the latest. View a few vids and leave a comment if you wish. We also have a site for our  interactives .

We have our daily web newscast. Our journalists take turns presenting our news summaries so you know tomorrow’s stories even before they are printed. You may visit  this directory  to see when new editions are up on the site. You may also subscribe to our  Youtube  channel so you get the new vids once we upload them.

We’ve ‘ bookmarked ’ the interesting stories/pages of The Brunei Times for you.

Check out our young  columnists . Excessive Thoughts. On The Road. Refresh. Tech Brat. If you disagree, feel free to leave a comment.

When a reader is not happy about something and wants Brunei to know about it or act on a problem or issue,  this  is where the complaint is posted.
