
The Medical Council of India (MCI) has denied permission to the ESIC Medical College here and three private medical colleges in the State to admit students to MBBS course this year citing non-compliance of its directions and staff shortage in the institutions.

The MCI had earlier denied approval for admissions to 100 enhanced seats in the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) citing non-compliance of its directions to improve infrastructure.

Medical Education Minister Sharanprakash Patil told The Hindu here on Sunday that while the State government had no role in pleading on behalf of the three private colleges — BGS Global Institute of Medical Sciences, Bangalore, Subbaiah Institute of Medical Sciences, Shimoga, and Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Mangalore — it would take up the issue of the ESIC Medical College with the Union Labour Ministry seeking its immediate intervention.

The MCI had said there was 29 per cent shortage of faculty members in the Gulbarga ESIC Medical College. The Union Labour Ministry would have to give an undertaking to the MCI that it would comply with all its conditions and seek approval for admissions this year, the Minister said.

According to information available with the State government, the three private colleges have very little time since the MCI would have to give approval for admissions by July 15. The colleges should comply with all the conditions and approach the MCI for a second inspection by then.

Dr. Patil said the government had initiated measures to comply with the conditions imposed by the MCI for seeking approval for admissions to 100 seats in the BMRCI that were enhanced last year. The MCI had said the BMCRI had failed get infrastructure such as auditorium and other buildings constructed. The State government had released Rs. 117 crore for constructing the auditorium and other buildings on the BMCRI campus, Dr. Patil said.

To a question, he said the MCI had inspected facilities atthree new government medical colleges in Gulbarga, Chamarajanagar and Koppal. The MCI team was expected to visit government medical colleges in Gadag, Karwar and Kodagu soon.

After the inspection, the MCI would take a decision on allowing the State government to admit 150 students each in the six colleges. The government had released Rs. 15 crore for providing equipment for the six colleges for starting MBBS course this year.
