
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

MUSKEGON, MI -- Muskegon Public Schools would sell its school buses and get out of the transportation business completely under a privatization plan the administration is recommending to the school board.

The district would spend an estimated $4.13 million for pupil transportation the next three years under the proposal from Dean Transportation, said Muskegon Public Schools Superintendent Jon Felske. The contract would result in overall transportation cost savings of about $2 million, much of which would come from the sale of buses, he said.

The school board will vote on the proposal Tuesday, May 20.

The district is struggling to overcome an estimated $2.6 million budget deficit, and privatizing the transportation system would be "a significant impact on keeping reductions away from the classroom," Felske said.

Dean would pay about $968,000 for the district's 35 buses -- a figure that was derived through a "yellow book" similar to the "blue book" used to establish values for used cars, Felske said. Of that amount $600,000 would be used to pay off bonds that were sold to purchase some of the buses.

Dean would be responsible for buying buses needed in the future, and proposes buying four new buses the first year and three new buses the second and third years.

If the contract with Dean doesn't work out, the district would be able to buy back its buses through the same yellow book process, Felske said.

The district received three responses to its request for proposals to operate the transportation system, one of which came from the Non-Instructional Employees Association union that the current bus drivers belong to. Essentially, its proposal was the existing contract that expires at the end of June 2015.

NIEA President Jeffrey A. Herbert told the school board during its work session Monday that the union was prepared to file a legal claim for lost wages if the board accepts Dean's proposal. He warned the board that privatization often results in a loss of quality of service and fewer savings than initially expected.

Drivers would remain employed with the district through June, and many likely could find jobs with Dean, Felske said. Drivers also could unionize as their own group or join an established Dean transportation union, Felske said.

The school district is setting up meetings between Dean representatives and current Muskegon drivers to talk about work conditions, wages and benefits, Felske said.

The district currently employs 38 drivers, three bus aides, two mechanics and two transportation clerks.

Dean has a long history of providing school transportation, starting out with special education transportation. Felske said Dean provided special ed transportation when he was superintendent at Wyoming and Godwin Heights school districts.

"They did a wonderful job," Felske said.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
