
EU - EU Fisheries Commissioner Maria Damanaki is participating on Monday May 19 in the European Maritime Day organised in Bremen, Germany.

The theme for this year's conference is "Innovation driving Blue Growth". Commissioner Damanaki will be joined during this two-day Conference by Mr Alexander Dobrindt, German Federal Minister for Transport and Digital Infrastructure, Mr Jens Böhrnsen, President of the Senate of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen, Mr Martin Günthner, Senator of Economic Affairs, Labour and Ports of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen, as well as other European ministers.

Innovation and research in the maritime economy can drive a European growth and jobs recovery whilst securing a sustainable future for Europe's seas, oceans, and all those whose livelihoods depend on them.

That is the focus of this year's European Maritime Day held in Bremen, Germany, on 19-20 May which will host an exchange of ideas between experts, stakeholders from all maritime sectors and policy makers from across the EU.

Commissioner Damanaki as co-host of the event, stated ahead of this year's European Maritime Day: "Europe's economy is still in choppy waters and we have a duty to maximise every drop of potential to help its recovery. Our seas and oceans have this potential in abundance. We are committed to exploring how best they can help us create jobs and growth – but in a way that does not compromise on our ecosystems. The European Maritime Day is an occasion for the maritime community to discuss how to make sure that growth and sustainability go hand in hand in the blue economy".

The European Commission's Blue Growth agenda seeks to make sustainability the cornerstone for maritime growth, and will therefore be at the heart of the discussions in Bremen. Set against a backdrop of recent announcements by the EU on Blue Innovation, Maritime Spatial Planning, Coastal and Maritime tourism and Ocean energy, the event will bring together each sector of the maritime economy to discuss how they can co-operate, share insights, and make sustainable growth a reality.
