
According to Moscow, the EU sanctions just impede efforts to resolve the Ukrainian crisis. "The European Union's logic does not fit our modern reality, which exist on the continent, Ukraine and around it. Instead they just impede joint efforts to provide assistance in overcoming the deep domestic state crisis, which struck Ukraine," Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said at a news conference following talks with his Slovak counterpart Miroslav Lajcak.

Russia is calling for a halt to the military operation in the southeastern regions of Ukraine, Sergei Lavrov said.

"We still insist on the first unconditional step: a halt of the so-called anti-terrorist operation, which is turning into actions aimed at terrorizing citizens of Ukraine just for their political convictions," Lavrov told a press conference in Moscow on Monday.

Russia insists on an international investigation into the events in Odessa under the aegis of the UN and the OSCE and relevant letters have already been sent to the administrations of the two international organizations, minister Lavrov said.

"We will demand that the investigation be objective and impartial, and in order for that to happen it has to be international. I have sent relevant letters to the UN secretary general and the OSCE secretary general," he said, Interfax reports.

Moscow thinks that the Ukrainian authorities are lying about the reasons behind the tragedy, which occurred in Odessa.

"We are outraged with what happened in Odessa and how the Ukrainian authorities treat this, we are outraged with the attempts to lie about the reasons of what happened and attempts to hide the truth," Lavrov said.

Russia has insisted on the immediate release of two Russian journalists from Lifenews, who were accused in Ukraine of terrorism, and called on the Swiss president, the current chairman of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), to assist the effort.

Kiev authorities are trying to keep "their hands free" for possible provocations through the delayed ratification of the memorandum on legal fundamentals of the OSCE observer mission in Ukraine, said Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.

"In my opinion, this is an excuse [that the Verkhovna Rada does not have time to ratify this memorandum] and we increasingly suspect there is something behind it, some wish to keep their hands free for possible provocations," Lavrov stated.

Moscow hopes that the roundtables aimed at establishing national dialogue in Ukraine will not become a folding screen for a hushed constitutional reform.

"If the idea is to use the roundtables simply as a folding screen, as a means of letting off steam, while holding the actual reform in a closed manner, it will not add trust on the part of the southeast to the actions being undertaken in Verkhovna Rada by the parties which formed a coalition," Russian Foreign Minister said.

Nevetheless, Russia supports holding round tables between the Ukrainian authorities and opposition and proposes to expand the number of participants, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.

"As to contacts between the authorities and opponents, we have always supported introducing such cooperation. We see the process, which has been started with the so-called round tables," Lavrov said at a news conference in Moscow. Certainly, far from all the representatives of southeastern Ukraine who publicly support federalization have been invited to participate in the round table, Lavrov said.

A reassessment of Russia’s relations with the European Union and NATO is needed, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said, opening talks with his Slovak counterpart Miroslav Lajcak.

"We want to discuss international affairs, the situation in Europe, what’s happening between us, between Russia and the EU and in the Russia-NATO Council in the context of the current crisis in Ukraine," the Russian minister said.

"A significant rethinking of [our] relations is necessary. We are trying to conduct such analysis with NATO and the EU as to what needs to be done to bring our relations in line with the existing documents," he said.

"It is important to understand where our views coincide and where they differ, he said. It is necessary to build these relations in accordance with the existing documents, for instance those pertaining to the NATO-Russia Council," the minister said.

"We appreciate Slovakia's well-balanced, pragmatic position," Lavrov said, Interfax reports.

Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko, journalists from the Russian television channel LifeNews, who were detained in Kramatorsk, Donetsk region, on May 18, should be released immediately, the press service for the Russian embassy in Kiev said in a statement released on Monday, according to Interfax.

"Regular persecution by the Ukrainian law enforcement structures of journalists working for the Russia media on the territory of Ukraine are nothing else than an encroachment on freedom of speech," the statement says.

Obstruction to professional activity of Russian journalists in Ukraine by military and law enforcement agencies became regular and countrywide, Itar-Tass reports. Ukrainian law enforcement agencies detained reporters of the Russian TV channel LifeNews Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko near the city of Kramatorsk in southeast Ukraine's Donetsk region on May 18 and taken them in the unknown direction, the press service of the Russian Embassy in Kiev said on Monday.

"This is not the first case of Russian journalists being detained by the Ukrainian law enforcers," the press service noted, adding that "On April 16, representatives of Ukrainian armed forces detained a crew of the All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (VGTRK)."

Such Ukrainian actions "run counter to international law provisions that regulate work of representatives of media outlets in a foreign country, saying nothing about numerous Ukrainian pledges that they impose no restrictions on activity of foreign journalists in the country," the press service said.

The Russian Embassy insists on an immediate end to such actions. "Arbitrariness and repressions against journalists and media actually an encroachment on the freedom of speech which is one of most fundamental freedoms in the modern world," the press service said, adding that "Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko should be released immediately."

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has asked OSCE Chairperson-in-Office Didier Burkhalter over the phone to urgently use every OSCE tool for the immediate liberation of Russian journalists detained by the Ukrainian authorities in the Donetsk region. The OSCE chairperson-in-office assured Lavrov that he would rapidly do so, a source in the Russian Foreign Ministry said.

The Russian Foreign Ministry made similar demarches in the OSCE Secretariat in Vienna and the Kiev headquarters of the OSCE mission in Ukraine, Interfax reports.

Journalists of Russian television station LifeNews were detained by Ukrainian military servicemen in Kramatorsk in the evening of May 18.

The letter has been posted on the television channel's website. Reports said earlier that Lifenews reporters Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko were detained at a checkpoint near Kramatorsk. The reporters have been out of contact ever since.

"Our reporters last got in touch with the editorial office at 1:50 pm Moscow time, when they were near a checkpoint on the city limits. Oleg Sidyakin managed to send out an SMS message saying that they were having big problems," the posting says.

Coordinator of the Information Resistance group based in Kiev, Dmitry Tymchuk, said that two Russian reporters were detained by Ukrainian law enforcement people near Kramatorsk and they will be handed over to the Ukrainian law enforcement services. "These citizens had a TV camera and were filming preparations for an assault on the Ukrainian law enforcement contingent's positions," Tymchuk wrote on Facebook.

Ukrainian law enforcers have detained a group of TV journalists from Russian media holding LifeNews near the south-eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk, the TV holding said in a statement transmitted to TASS on Sunday.

"Reporters were presumably stopped at a checkpoint near the city of Kramatorsk. There is no cellular phone communications with them," the statement runs.

Sergei Lavrov and Frank-Walter Steinmeier "expressed concern about the continuing clashes and agreed that the situation must be de-escalated urgently, the violence should be stopped in order to avoid further fatalities and favorable conditions should be created for a truly comprehensive national dialogue on constitutional reform," the Russian Foreign Ministry said.

"The parties also spoke about the importance of roundtable discussions, taking into account that the interests of the country's southeastern regions must be duly represented," it said.

Lavrov pointed out that Kiev must stop using force against protesters as the April 17 Geneva statement requires, and commended the role of the OSCE's special monitoring mission in areas of confrontation in promoting accords on the content and sequence of practical steps to ease tensions.

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier believes the West should cooperate with, not confront, Russia over Ukraine.

Cooperation with Moscow is crucial in many important issues, including a peace settlement in Syria, Afghanistan and the Iranian nuclear program, he said in an interview with the Die Thüringischen Landeszeitung newspaper.

Of late, Steinmeier has been criticized by conservative-minded CDU/CSU politicians and SDPG representatives, who are displeased with his department's attitude towards Russia amid the crisis in Ukraine and would like it to see it coordinating its actions more closely with other European Union member states. Some argue that Germany doesn't take proper account of Russia’s interests.

Steinmeier acknowledged in the interview that he saw no clear strategy that could guarantee success but expressed confidence that the conflict in Ukraine could and must be resolved peacefully, promising to do all in his power to achieve that.

The Ukrainian crisis won't disappear with the wave of a magic wand, the minister said. He fears that if no peaceful solution is found, the further escalation of the crisis might cause a new split in Europe.

Speaking about sanctions, Steinmeier warned that they might hit weaker European economies. Those calling for economic sanctions should know that "we will all have to bear the costs," he said.

All rights reserved.
