
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 6:56 p.m.

Members of the Evans family said Monday that they feel like they received a miracle in spite of the Friday death of their daughter, Peyton Evans, 15.

The spunky Forest High School freshman cheerleader's organs were donated to three recipients, including a life-saving heart donation for a 7-year-old girl.

“No doubt it was a miracle. It gives us comfort,” Amy Evans said Monday afternoon about how, even in death, Peyton was able to help others.

“Her liver and kidneys both went to young mothers,” Amy Evans said.

“As crazy as it sounds, I believe our faith has been strengthened,” she added.

Peyton was stricken with a ruptured blood vessel in the brain after a May 9 workout session at the Frank DeLuca YMCA Family Center in Ocala with her father, Brian Evans. She complained about a headache and then collapsed in the parking lot. A call quickly was placed to 911.

A scan at Ocala Regional Medical Center revealed the bleeding in her brain, and Peyton was transferred to UF Health Shands Hospital in Gainesville, where she died seven days later.

During the intense week Peyton was hospitalized, Amy and Brian Evans — along with Peyton's sisters Taylor, 18, Rylee, 13, and Brinlynn, 19 months — kept a vigil by her side.

Students from several area high schools, especially her classmates and friends from Forest High, networked to hold candlelight vigils and fundraising events.

Taylor Evans called her sister Peyton “an angel,” and family and friends described her as loving and caring at the Wednesday candlelight vigil.

Two large banners signed by hundreds of students were taken to Peyton's room last week, along with donations raised from the sale of nearly 300 #Pray for Peyton wristbands, according to Alicia Garcia Torres, Alexia's mother.

Within an hour of Peyton's passing, the students organized a candlelight vigil at the Y.

“We feel the ways the kids came together to help was unbelievable. The students and the community support was part of the miracle. Words can't express our gratitude; we are so grateful,” Amy Evans said.

On Monday, guidance counselors and a crisis intervention team were on hand at Forest. School counselor Tracy Moody said a number of the students wanted to talk about their loss.

Principal Brent Carson said the school is like a family.

“We have a support system in good times and tragedies,” he said.

“It was hard today. I used to eat lunch with her sometimes,” Alexia Hernandez said.

“We're going to donate some of the #Pray for Peyton wristbands and sell them and shirts at the Green and Gold game Thursday,” she added.

Carson said Peyton was an honors student who was known to light up a room when she entered it.

“A teacher told me you would see her smile coming first,” Carson said.

Amy Evans said Heirs-Baxley Funeral Services will be handling arrangements. Although it was yet to be confirmed, she said she believes the funeral services will be held Saturday at First Baptist Church in Ocala.
