
ADDIS ABABA – The Ethiopian government on Saturday received nine new vessels worth over $300 million from China at a ceremony organized in Djibouti.

"The vessels are not only Ethiopian assets but they are also Djibouti’s properties," Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn said at the ceremony.

"The vessels indicate the rapid development in Ethiopia," he added.

Named after the capital cities of Ethiopia's regional states, the vessels were built with loans from the Chinese government.

Most of Ethiopia's exports and imports are transported through the Port of Djibouti, which is located 900km east of Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa.

"Djibouti benefits from Ethiopia's rapid development and in turn Djibouti’s growth is an advantage to Ethiopia," Djiboutian President Ismail Omar Guelleh told the ceremony.

"The relation between Ethiopia and Djibouti is not limited to a government-to-government level but it has been intensified in people-to-people ties," he said.

The Djiboutian leader went on to say that relations between the two neighbors are boosting in different spheres, including the economic and social fields.

"Djibouti gives a port service to Ethiopia but it does not consider that it is giving the service to another country but regards it as it is doing it for itself," he said.

"We believe that Ethiopia is Djibouti and Djibouti is Ethiopia, no difference at all," he added, going on to reiterate that the new vessels will further help speed up the ongoing development endeavors in Ethiopia.

Ethiopia had used Eritrean ports until 1998 when the two countries engaged in a war of their border disputes.

Following the war, Ethiopian began to use Djibouti ports to export its products.

I did not know we have A PORT called ….what was that ports name again?   Haaaaaaa.

Anyone with sanity and normal humanity cannot deny the NEVER SEEN BEFORE progress and huge optimism Ethiopia is Enjoying at the moment.   The only individuals who are rigidly stubborn and in denial about the reality  are the insane and abnormal (incurably hate-sickened and complete ignorant) ones.

Yigermal,

Hang yourselves and avoid the filthy and good for NOTHING lives.

You just are evil minded and hopeless “harmless” animals.

Another smart company. So many country with harbor, don’t have shipping industry. smart government.

Here is another mounting debt from China! We even borrow from China to buy Boeing\American product so we can loose our independence even when it comes to our Airlines.

The funny part is the Djiboutian president’s comment about port services.

This news is for all useless ( & now very miserable) Erishitreans who’ve been taunting  us after stealing our coast and ports. Until we take back what is ours (that what was given to you by aidszemens bald headed God) we will not only buy more vessels but also more Navy Ships.

First of all ask yourself what your beloved the cruel Woyane has done in the past and now.

It is better to use this money to declare war on Eritrea and regain Ethiopia’s God given sea than buying all this vessels.

any way congratulation to both ethiopia and djibouti and  RIP to eritrea….africa is finaly waking up. we either swim or sink together. the fact that ethiopia grew the last few years is proving to be good for djibouti and vice-versa. ethiopians should also invest in djibouti to boost the relationship.

We lost Assab? We lost the whole Eritrea Province.

During the reign of Emperor Haile Sellasie I once sneacked inside Ager Gizat Minister. Once inside I was shown by a friend of mine the Document of the ‘Lease’ of Djibouty to the French.

nazret.com is the #1 rated Ethiopian website. Be part of the largest Ethiopian News website, join in to become a contributor.

© nazret.com The Most Popular Ethiopian Website. nazret is Ranked #1 by Alexa and Qantcast .
