
Santo Domingo.- The Cibao Ecological Society (Soeci) on Sunday reiterated its opposition of the route announced by Public Works minister Gonzalo Castillo to build the Cibao (North)-South Highway, citing “serious environmental damage” to protected areas.

Last week Castillo announced the rout encompassing Sabaneta, San Juan in the south, to the Cibao region of Santiago, as the most suitable, taking into account the ecology, cost and distance.

The route from Sabaneta cuts through the Central Mountain Range, the source of most of Dominican Republic’s major rivers.

SOECI president Víctor Medrano said a road built along the announced route would cause severe damage to forests and several major rivers, among them the Yaque North, which supplies several aqueducts in the Cibao. "It’s a mistake to build a road taking into account only the shortest route and the economic cost, forgetting the environmental factor."

He suggests three options: The International Highway that links the Southwest in the Northwest (Pedro Santana and Restauracion); Jarabacoa-(Constanza) Ocoa-San Juan and Piedra Blanca-Rancho Arriba-Ocoa-San Juan.

Medrano said the routed announced could harm more than 100 water sources and around 15 million square metres of protected forests.

Why dont they invest in rail system, instead of harming the eviorement the beauty of this island, and i think its costly to break mountains destroy forests rivers , rail system is much efective way for transportation cargo or passenger.

The government should take a time out and review its decision.

Taking in "shortest route and the economic cost" as the criteria for the route selected by the public works minister does not factor in the long term costs of having to respond and control dangers and risks to the environment the route suggests.  The country has not grasped the culture of looking at the big picture of the costs of its decisions but rather it is comfortable with the quickest and the cheapest resolutions.  Quick and cheap are the sires of future dilemmas.

Hay que oponerse a esta construccion, no solo es un sacrilejio al medio ambiente del area, sino que va a facilitar el movimiento mas rapido de Haitiano a esta area.

Write your opinion here. Please keep your comment relevant to this article. Please note that any comments which contain offensive language or discriminatory expressions may be edited/removed.
