
Paul Walker in 2009.

Turns out the late Paul Walker had a handsome car collection, and those cars are going on sale, TMZ reports . The actor was as much a car guy in real life as on screen, and has amassed a collection of approximately 30 cars, some of which have previously been featured in the media, and some of which have not.

Walker’s exotic car shop, Always Evolving, is organizing the sale along with the late actor’s estate, and has decided not to publicize the cars or Walker’s connection to them. The estate felt that Walker wouldn’t want his name to be used if his cars were sold, so as not to make money on the infamy of his crash.

Sales of the cars from his collection, reportedly to include several late model BMWs, Audis, Porsches and a number of Ford F, +0.35%  Mustangs, have already begun through private brokers.

Always Evolving was founded by Roger Rodas, who died along with Walker Nov. 30, 2013, when their Porsche Carrera GT, driven by Rodas, hit a light pole and a tree after skidding off the road.

Matt Farah of The Smoking Tire got a look at the collection at the shop’s garage in 2012, and a video offers a detailed look of Walker’s collection , in accordance with the wishes of the estate. The video was published more than two years ago, giving a brief look at some of the vehicles stored in the shop, and it arguably doesn’t show enough details for the vehicles to be immediately identified if they were to appear on the open market, without looking at the paperwork.

The only other known Paul Walker car which has recently been offered for sale is a Nissan Skyline R34 GT-R owned by a Munich-based tuning shop called GT-A, which acquired the car after federal agents in Costa Mesa, Calif., ordered the cars to be exported within 60 days (it’s complicated). The German shop offered the car for 1 million euros, promising to donate half the proceeds to Walker’s charity, Reach Out Worldwide , though in the three months that it has been on sale no word of a deal has emerged.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
