
The Oculus Rift may be the most well-known device amongst virtual reality aficionadios, but it's not the only machine on the block.

The company, Beijing-based ANTVR, claims that its product - which includes a wireless headset and a controller - gives users the opportunity to completely immerse themselves in larger-than-life versions of their favourite media.

"The [ANTVR KIT] is equipped with a full [high-definition] display," the product's Kickstarter description reads. "The sharp picture is projected onto your retina through the aspherical lens without distorting the image, allowing every pixel to remain in sharp focus.

"While wearing the headset, you’re surrounded by the largest 4:3 standard screen in the world, which gives you a 100° diagonal field of view. This gives users an IMAX-like experience in the comfort of their own homes."

Qin says he was inspired to found a company and create the ANTVR KIT largely from a love of science fiction.

"During college, I wrote...sci-fi stories, several of which were published in a major Chinese magazine, and even produced a few short movies,” he told Tech in Asia. "I [also] built several swimming robots, developed some satellite software, and a made a device that can identify people in virtual reality worlds.

"But, being a big sci-fi fan, my biggest dream was to make a real-life Holodeck [like the one from the Star Trek television series]. To this end, I invented a lot of virtual reality devices like holographic glasses and...headsets. Then I created the first ANTVR KIT prototype all by myself last year."

First revealed on Kickstarter this week, the ANTVR KIT has already raised over US$100,000 in funding from interested parties. If the project raises over US$200,000 by June 23, then it will be put into production.

In my opinion AntVR is full of it.  They have yet to show anything at all to confirm any of their silly claims, and they try to make their system sound better than anything else out there when it is likely nothing great.

Just search up AntVR threads and you will find the answers.
