
A photo taken on Christmas Eve shows how pedestrians currently walk along Missouri Highway 9 between Missouri Highway 33 and Marimack Drive.

To view a project summary for the proposed sidewalk improvements along Missouri Highway 92 and make comments on the plans, visit www.marc2.org/tr-call/browseprojects.aspx .

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 4:00 pm | Updated: 5:24 pm, Tue May 20, 2014.

The city of Kearney recently applied for funds to assist with the construction of half a mile of sidewalk along Missouri 92 Highway. The sidewalk would stretch from Missouri Highway 33 east to Marimack Drive.

The city has requested funds through the Mid-America Regional Council, which would pay for 80 percent of the project, leaving the city responsible for $144,000. Without MAARC’s assistance, Mayor Bill Dane said the project couldn’t be done without a tax increase, which he said wasn’t being considered as an option.

“We need as many people online supporting these projects as we can get,” Dane said.

Dane and other city officials are encouraging residents to go online to www.marc2.org/tr-call/browseprojects.aspx and comment on the projects to show MARC’s review board that residents are interested in and that there is a need for the projects.

Dane said there was an immediate need for a sidewalk on that section of Highway 92 which passes in front of Porter Ridge apartments. City staff took photos this winter of people traversing that section in the snow in below-freezing temperatures.

As of Monday morning, May 19, this sidewalk project proposal had seven comments on the MARC website. In contrast, a project in Jackson County had 61 comments. David Pavlich, community development director for the city of Kearney, said the projects were highly competitive and there were five times as many funds being requested as MARC was able to hand out.

James Preston, who also wrote a letter to the city about a sidewalk on that stretch of Highway 92, commented on the site to vouch his support for the project. Preston said he purposefully walked a 15-minute detour to avoid the dangers of that stretch of road. He said he’d seen mothers with strollers on the side of the road attempting to traverse it. City officials said they had no knowledge of any major pedestrian and motor vehicle accidents in that area, but Dane believes they’ve been lucky.

The Missouri Department of Transportation would handle the construction and engineering of the project. If MARC doesn’t approve the Kearney project for funding, Dane said the city would keep applying until it could secure those funds.

“If we can get the community online and supporting this, it would go a long way in the scoring,” Dane said.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 4:00 pm. Updated: 5:24 pm.

Wise Adviser posted at 9:22 pm on Wed, May 21, 2014.

A known safety issue is present on several local streets involving numerous near pedestrian/car accident misses as a result of a lack of sidewalks and a safe passage to pedestirans including children to and from businesses and schools. However, we won't dare complete these projects without the receipt of a grant or a tax increase (notice I said won't versus can't because we can as documented by the Mayor's proposal to add a connecting road between the new shopping center and 19th street at a cost of several million dollars to local taxpayers WITHOUT a tax increase).

All one has to do is look at who benefits from the projects to see our Mayor's priorities.  Multi-million dollar connecting road - great benefit to the developer and owners of the developable land - no tax increase needed.  Sidewalks on high traffic and dangrous roads - Kearney residents benefit greatly - can't be done without new taxes or the receipt of Federal grants..

Apparently our City Motto is now Businesses Before People which also dovetails nicely with the stance on a reasonable public health enhancing smoking ordinance.

Wise Adviser posted at 9:53 pm on Wed, May 21, 2014.

And just to clarify (or further confuse) for those who are under the impression the new Shoppes to 19th street road will not cost taxpayers anything.  It will.  The refinancing is only saving $300,000 which is signficantly less than the total project cost.  Millions in additional debt is being taken on and the payments for the existing debt balance are being extend out for many more years.  Specifics should be provided to voters showing how much additional debt we are taking on and what the total additional payments are compared to the total payments to payoff the existing bonds to their current maturities.

It is just like taking cash out of your home's equity and refinancing your mortgage.  Net interest costs are saved on the portion of existing debt but additional monies will be expended due to the interest and prinicipal payments on the increased prinicpal amount and the overall increased length of time one will take to pay off the debt.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
