
Ethan is into robotics and computers and aspires to become a fighter pilot one day; while Alex likes puzzles and trying to figure out how they work and how to solve them.

Gifted students are known to have higher academic skills, even IQs. These children can be identified as gifted as early as third grade, and in many schools, the gifted have an opportunity to be involved in programs like Papillion’s “HAL” or Higher Ability Learner.

Oftentimes the students blend right in, there are other times when they don’t.

“Most of the time they just try to isolate me, get me away from the group, make fun of me, pointless taunting. I just ignore it,” Ethan said.

The students often come together for seminars to build robots or to dissect cow hearts. It is all to connect gifted students from all schools.

“(The kids say) I might be the smartest kid in the class, but all of a sudden when I go to my seminar I’m just one of 25 other kids who have the same talents as I do. And that’s good for kids to have that interaction with their peers like that,” said Dr. Ron Hanson, assistant superintendent of curriculum and instruction for Papillion La Vista Schools.

Hanson recognizes that gifted students sometimes deal with certain issues that other students don’t worry too much about, such as unrealistic expectations, self-esteem and perfectionism.

“The really self-imposed anxiety really comes from the child themselves, sometimes to be that perfectionist, and we really push that it’s OK to make a mistake,” said Hanson.

There are nearly 3 million gifted students nationwide, but programs like HAL are not well-funded. Supporters of gifted programs feel that is a big mistake.

There is only one law aimed at gifted students, the Javits Act, which has lost half of its funding in the past few years.

Schools have to choose whether to fund these programs or reach out to the community for donations. While it is working at Papillion, through the Papillion Schools Foundation, there is no guarantee that the programs will get the proper funding.

Most of the students’ main support comes through their parents.

“Encourage them to get out of their comfort zone and explore some of the things that maybe you’re not picking up on, what their interest are, so you really have to sit down and listen to them,” said Evan Downey, father of Ethan and Alex Downey.

“It comes to listening to your child and knowing what they need and what they want, what’s going to satisfy their urge to succeed,” said Karen Downey, mother of Ethan and Alex Downey.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use. Your comment will not appear here until you verify your email address with Disqus. KETV NewsWatch 7 encourages users to report violations of our terms of use by flagging the inappropriate comment. Hold your mouse over the comment to reveal the flag on the right side, then click the flag.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
