
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Three Republicans and two Democrats are competing in the June 3 primary to be their party's candidate for the Alabama Senate District 1 seat in the November general election.

Senate District 1 was redrawn for this election to include portions of Lauderdale, Limestone and Madison counties. to see map,  click here .

Education: Bachelor's degree from the University of North Alabama. 1998 graduate of County Commission College.

Family: Married to Janice Curtis. They have twin daughters, Britney, married to Luke Underwood, and Mellany, married to Kane Lancaster; and a son Bryce. Five grandsons, Brodie, Tripp, Maddox, Carter and Brentyn.

Issues: "I am campaigning on term limits and campaign finance reform. Three terms is enough for any politician to serve, and I will lead by example. Too much money is being spent on campaigns and needs reform also. Jobs should be the top priority for anyone running for office and it will be mine. My dear late mother taught school for 38 years said that not everyone is college bound so you need a vocational trade. We need to invest more into our High School Vocational programs so when a young person graduates, he or she has an opportunity to go into the apprentice programs or secure a job. I have over 20 years' experience in government to help Lauderdale, Limestone and Madison counties."

Education: Bachelor of science in education from the University of North Alabama, master's degree in school administration and supervision from UNA, doctorate in elementary education with endorsements in early childhood education, teacher preparation and school administration from the University of Alabama.

Occupation: Retired educator with 40-plus years at all levels of education. Still working 50-60 hours per week in a part-time position at UNA as a "labor of professional love."

Issues: "To create jobs through a highly effective partnership of all stakeholders. Another issue is helping people realize that both parties are terribly broken because corrupt politicians, on both sides of the aisle and hidden agendas are diseases that have shortened the lifespan of  economic development, proper funding for our schools, workforce development, law enforcement, programs for our seniors, pre-school programs for our children, services for our veterans, state employee and teacher benefits, the overall health of our state and for all  middle class citizens of Alabama. I have a detailed plan for making this work."

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
