
The continuing crisis between Russia and the West will be brought into sharp relief during the week of 20-25 May, as the ILA Berlin Airshow celebrates 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall.

The Ukraine crisis has arguably plunged relations between NATO and Russia to their lowest ebb since the Wall came down in 1989. To mark this anniversary, ILA will be holding seminars and other events to analyse the current security and geopolitical situation, and how it might tie in with the development of defence aerospace products.

With NATO having significantly enhanced its air policing presence in the Baltic, and reinforced its eastern members by deploying additional fighter aircraft, ILA will allow the alliance to showcase its capabilities through displays of many of the aircraft types currently patrolling its eastern boundaries.

The French Air Force will have on static display its Dassault Rafale, four of which are now stationed at Malbork Airbase on Poland's Baltic coast; the German Air Force will be flying its Eurofighter Typhoon, six of which have been offered to bolster the Portuguese rotation of the Baltic Air Policing mission, which begins in September.

The UK Royal Air Force also currently has four Typhoons stationed at Siauliai Airbase in support of the Polish rotation of four MiG-29 'Fulcrum' fighters (examples of which will also be flying at ILA).

A number of international operators of the Lockheed Martin F-16 Fighting Falcon will also be displaying their aircraft at ILA, including the US Air Force (USAF) which has 12 such fighters located in Poland and eight in Romania in direct response to the crisis with Russia. The Royal Danish Air Force also has four F-16s flying out of Amari Airbase in Estonia in support of the Polish Baltic Air Policing rotation (and has two more on standby in Denmark).

Finally, the Czech Air Force will be showcasing its Saab Gripen C fighter at ILA, having offered four such aircraft to help support any regional neighbour that requests them. The Swedish Air Force also sent two JAS 39 Gripen C aircraft to Lithuania in April to conduct joint training with the USAF's Boeing F-15C Eagles which were stationed there at the time.

While the crisis with Russia continues in the anniversary year of the fall of the Berlin Wall, observers will be hoping nothing escalates fighter deployments as NATO and Europe look to head off a second Cold War with their erstwhile Russian adversary.
