
William G. Bowen, former president of Princeton and a nationally respected higher education leader, called the student protesters’ approach both “immature” and “arrogant” and the subsequent withdrawal of Robert J. Birgeneau, former chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, a “defeat” for the Quaker college and its ideals.

Rutgers University in New Jersey held a graduation ceremony on Sunday without former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who withdrew after professors and students there protested her appearance for her role in the Iraq war. Smith and Brandeis, too, lost speakers this year.

At Haverford, the controversy arose over Birgeneau’s leadership during a 2011 incident in which UC Berkeley police used force on students protesting college costs. A group of more than 40 students and three Haverford professors — all Berkeley alumni — objected to Birgeneau’s appearance and receipt of an honorary degree, noting that many of them had participated in Occupy protests as well and wanted to stand in solidarity with Berkeley students.

Bowen — who made clear he took no position on Birgeneau’s handling of the Berkeley student demonstration — blasted the Haverford protesters’ approach.

“I am disappointed that those who wanted to criticize Birgeneau’s handling of events at Berkeley chose to send him such an intemperate list of “demands,” said Bowen, who led Princeton from 1972 to 1988 and last year received the National Humanities Medal from President  Obama.

Bowen, however, also criticized Birgeneau’s response. Birgeneau, who is best known for his support of undocumented and minority students, declined the student demands in a short, sharply worded email.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK COMPLETE: Londonderry, I-93 SB between mile marker 15.6 and 14.2, right lane open.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK COMPLETE: Windham, I-93 NB and SB, blasting operations over.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK CLEARED: Concord I-93 southbound mile marker 36 all lanes are open.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK CLEARED: Littleton I-93 southbound, all lanes are open.

nhdoti93 : CRASH ALERT:  There is an accident on I-93 NB at exit 1 in Salem.

nhdoti93 : ACCIDENT CLEAR: Bow, i-93 SB, Hooksett tolls. the accident is clear. All lanes are open.

nhdoti93 : ACCIDENT ALERT: Bow, i-93 SB, Hooksett tolls. there is a car into the barrier between the ORT and the booths. All lanes are open.

Valley News : A Life, John A. Clements: 'He Prided Himself on Making Things Better'.......Charter Change in Claremont Almost Ready for Nov. Vote.....Yoga Pioneer Remembered in Lebanon.....'If I Can Do It, You Can Do It' Sunapee Swim Is Amputee's Latest Success.....All this and more in Monday's Valley News! Pick up your copy today!
