
Today thousands of parents will watch from the sidelines while their grown children walk through Kansas University's Campanile, down the hill and into Memorial Stadium, as countless parents have done before on graduation day.

But Dan Mercer won't be among them. He'll be walking down the hill too, next to his daughter.

Mercer started college at Kansas University in 1978 at age 19. He paid his own way as he went, alternating semesters between working and saving and going to school, until he came to a point where he stopped the school part of the cycle.

"I found my friends were either graduating or dropping out," Mercer said. "I didn't know what to do, so I went to work, and, as it turns out, it was for 30 years."

In that time Mercer started a family, raised two children and became a vice president of Swan Engineering and Supply Co. in Kansas City. But the unfinished degree he started decades earlier began to nag him.

"I felt like I had put in all this time and effort working toward a degree, and then I just walked away from it," he said. So, with encouragement from his wife, Anne, he talked to an adviser and started taking classes at the KU Edwards Campus in Overland Park. He took one class each semester, for more than five years.

This spring he'll graduate with a bachelor's degree in English. On Sunday he'll finally walk down the hill, as the KU tradition demands. In less traditional fashion, he'll be doing so alongside his daughter, Maureen Mercer, who will be graduating with a master's degree in social work.

The Mercer double-whammy graduation event wasn't at all planned, the family says, but instead is the end of a long chain of happy accidents.

In his first life as a college student, Mercer said he lacked motivation. "It wasn't that I didn't want to learn, it was that I didn't know what I wanted to learn."

Economics were also a factor in his leaving school. At the time he was a radio, television and film major, a program that required an internship to graduate. Mercer had to work to pay the bills and tuition, and couldn't afford to work for free as an intern.

More than 35 years passed between the time Dan Mercer started college at Kansas University and when he finished. When he heads down the hill today, he'll be joining his daughter Maureen Mercer, who will graduate with her master's degree.

When he started college the second time, now in his 50s, Mercer had more motivation, but he found himself nervous in the classroom, having been away so long.

In his first class at Edwards, a nonfiction writing workshop, his instructor asked the class to list as many adjectives as they could in 60 seconds. He's embarrassed to admit it now, but Mercer raised his hand to ask his instructor to refresh him on what an "adjective" was.

"It was 30 years since I was in the classroom, and I just freaked out," he said.

He would come to find his comfort level and enjoy the discussions about literature in his English classes, usually full of older, bolder students who were happy to share their opinions in class.

Meanwhile Maureen Mercer also followed a winding, though shorter, path toward graduating from KU. She began college at Salisbury University in Maryland but grew dissatisfied after her first year. "It wasn't really the college town feel I was looking for," she said. "Really, my heart was telling me KU."

As things would happen, she'd go to KU at the same time as her father. "Being in school together is just fun," she said. "We'd talk about the classroom experience. He was excited to be back."

"It was exciting for me that he decided to go back to school," she added. "He's really smart, and I know that he loves to learn."

Early this year they did the math and realized the two were headed down the hill together in May. By another happy accident, graduation day is also Maureen's birthday. And continuing the Mercer tradition of graduation coincidences, the family will hold a dual graduation party for Mercer and Maureen on Father's Day.

Soaking it all in is Anne Mercer , who's pumped to watch her husband and daughter graduate together. "I can believe it happened like this," she said. "It's never how old you are. Whatever your experience is, never say 'can't.'"

Use the comment form below to begin a discussion about this content.

Commenting has been disabled for this item.
