
Terri Lipscomb paced around her fourth-graders' desks during Wednesday morning's math lesson, but her voice seemed to come from everywhere.

Rather than projecting her voice, the teacher spoke in a volume one might expect in a library. A microphone around her neck transmitted her voice to a speaker system on a shelf in the back of the Newfield Elementary School classroom.

concentrating.

But when the Redcat system was installed about two weeks ago, it wasn't intended for any particular fourth-grader in the class.

"I think it helps them focus better on my voice and what I am saying,"  Lipscomb said of the system. "Their eyes are on me when I am talking. ... They get what I am saying, they have started asking more questions." Newfield's speech pathologist, Lynn Schuster , received a grant from the Exchange Club of North Stamford to purchase the Redcat, which consists of the wireless microphone that transmits an infrared signal to the receiver and speakers.

"When she didn't have it, people kept talking over her," said Jeremy Lopiano , one of her students. "Now they can't make up that excuse that I didn't hear you."

"She doesn't have to use her mean voice," fourth-grader Alexandra Samelko said.

Newfield received its first voice amplification system more than 10 years ago, when Elaine Law-Ramos , the district audiologist, was working there.

The school received a system for a free trial and kept it to assist one child. That system moved through the grades with the student, she said.

But teachers recognized the benefit to the entire class, and the school made a point of trying to acquire one system per grade, she said.

After his 20-car motorcade cleared the Merritt Parkway at rush hour, presumptive Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry swept into town yesterday for a celebrity-filled fundraiser at the New Canaan home of Paul Simon and his wife, Edie Brickell .

The fundraiser, which included "Saturday Night Live" creator Lorne Michaels and actors Richard Gere and Chevy Chase , was estimated to have netted $1 million for Kerry and the Democratic National Committee , who are working feverishly to catch up to the Republicans in donations.

Last night might be Kerry's only presidential campaign visit to Connecticut, a party official said, given that the state is expected vote strongly for the Democrat anyway.

The several hundred attendees, who each gave more than $2,000, are the kind of contributors Kerry, a U.S. senator from Massachusetts, needs as he tries to overcome the fund-raising lead of President Bush and the Republicans.

"The Republicans have twice as much money as we do," Kerry told the crowd.

Still, his campaign has already surpassed the $80 million mark it hoped to reach by the July convention, Kerry said. Kerry is considering delaying accepting the Democratic nomination so he can continue to raise and spend private contributions.

Fort Stamford on Westover Road was built in 1781 to prevent a surprise attack from the enemy. It worked, because the enemy never showed up.

Yesterday, the city was forced to change strategy and launch a sneak attack on hundreds of unsuspecting gypsy moth caterpillars, which had just settled in at the fort and other places for breakfast.

In North Stamford they seemed to be everywhere -- on oak trees, crab apples and locusts. About one-quarter inch in length, and the width of a paper clip, the black critters resembled skinny worms attached to the leaves.

The Stamford Department of Parks and Recreation yesterday began a two-week barrage on an infestation of gypsy moth caterpillars discovered in North Stamford. The Bicentennial oak tree, before the Revolutionary War, was one of the first targets.

Yesterday, beginning at 4 a.m., a crew from Alpine Tree Care Inc. in Norwalk began spraying Bacillus thuringiensis, a bacterial spray referred to as Bt. The caterpillars are expected to  keep eating the coated leaves. Within three to four days, the treated insects should die. A second application is needed after 10 days to get any caterpillars that hatched after the initial spraying.

A Stamford junk dealer said today that all the city's dealers will refuse to dispose of cars abandoned in the city, in retaliation against an order by the city health director banning burning of junked autos after Aug. 1.

Henry Brown , president of Canal St. Iron & Metal Corp. at 520 Canal St., told the Advocate the boycott will go into effect within a week, and that city officials will be left with the problem of what to do the some 300 cars a week.

Mr. Brown said the junk dealers are willing to cooperate with the city in eliminating air pollution caused by burning of junked cars, but they need land on which to build a special incinerator and the city has not responded to the dealers' request to be allowed to rent about 1 1/2 acres from the city.

Children playing with matches in hay on the floor of a barn owned by Stephen Obusky on a side street off West Avenue accidentally set fire to the building at 11:15 a.m. today, and it was burned to the ground. The loss is about $200. The barn was one story high, of wood, and had practically no contents. The West Side and Luther Street companies answered the call and used a water and chemical on the barn, which was nearly already burned to the ground before the fireman arrived. The house, a few feet distant, caught fire, but Capt. Smith brought a line of chemical hose to the roof, and kept guard there during the shower of sparks from the barn.
