
Los Angeles: As Intel announced the names of the winners of its International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel ISEF), held last week in California, nine Indian students made it to the list at the world's largest international pre-college science competition.

Kopal Gupta and Shreya Nandy of the Amity International School won $2,500 in the ASU Rob and Melani Walton Sustainability Solutions Initiatives category, and a fourth prize of $500 in the Chemistry category for their work about detection and removal of pesticides from fruits and vegetables.

However, Nathan Han, 15, of Boston was awarded first place for developing a machine learning software tool to study mutations of a gene linked to breast cancer at this year’s Intel International Science and Engineering Fair, a program of Society for Science & the Public. Han received the Gordon E Moore Award of $75,000, named in honour of the Intel co-founder and fellow scientist.

Other big winners were Lennart Kleinwort of Germany, who received one of two Intel Foundation Young Scientist Awards of $50,000 for developing a new mathematical tool for smartphones and tablets that brings capabilities to hand-held devices that previously required more sophisticated and expensive computing tools.

Shannon Xinjing Lee, 17, of Singapore received the other Intel Foundation Young Scientist Award of $50,000 for developing a novel electrocatalyst that may be used for batteries of the future.

More than 1,700 young scientists from around the world featured at this year's Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. Apart from the top winners, more than 500 finalists received awards and prizes for their innovative research, including 17 “Best of Category” winners, who each received a $5,000 prize. The Intel Foundation also awarded a US$1,000 grant to each winner’s school and to the affiliated fair they represent.

In addition, a select number of students with experiential awards, have been chosen for a 11-day trip to China to attend the country’s largest national science competition, speak with researchers at Intel’s lab in Shanghai, and visit the Panda Research Base in Chengdu.

At the Intel ISEF event, these young scientists share ideas, showcase cutting-edge research, and compete for more than USD 5 million in awards and scholarships.
