
Neighbours called emergency services about 1:00am (AEST) after spotting flames coming from the two-storey building.

Up to 60 firefighters worked to control the fire.

Rural Fire Service Inspector Peter Marshall says the roof collapsed at the height of the blaze.

"Pretty much all of that building is extensively damaged," he said.

"The brigades did some great work stopping the spread of the fire to adjoining buildings and contained it to that single building."

Fire crews remain at the school to help engineers who have been called in to assess the structural integrity of the building.

A demolition crew will be brought in to make the site stable.

Police say the doors to the building may have been forced open and are treating the fire as suspicious.

They are yet to determine if the blaze was deliberately lit or the result of an electrical fault.

They estimate the damage to cost more than $2 million to repair and replace all the library's content.

Tim McCallum from Public Schools New South Wales says it is a huge blow to the staff and students.

"Absolutely devastating," he said.

"The school has a number of very important records and things that are very near and dear to them and student access of course is compromised but they're fighting on bravely.

"We've had magnificent support from the colleagues and from the department."

Education Minister Adrian Piccoli says it is not a requirement for schools to be fitted with smoke alarms.

Mr Piccoli said it was not unusual for them not to be fitted.

"The advice given to me is that it's not a requirement to have smoke alarms in school classrooms," he said.

"Including, actually, these brand new ones don't have smoke alarms. That's the advice to me."

The Education Department is hoping the school will reopen tomorrow.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
