
Forty years after its founding, the David Posnack Jewish Day School will have a new high school building of its own.

The Paul and Maggie Fischer High School, which currently shares the Katz Building with the Jewish Federation of Broward County , will begin the 2015 school year in a new $7 million building near the lower school.

"We expect to break ground in September," Richard Cuenca, head of school, said last week. "We've outgrown the space in the Katz Building."

Cuenca said the high school was faced with curbing student enrollment at 200 children or constructing a new building to bring in more students. The Posnack Day School currently has students from Weston to Hallandale and from the northern and southern portions of Broward County , he said.

There are now about 180 students in grades 9 through 12 and enrollment is expected to be around 200 students next year, Cuenca added. A "healthy" high school will have about 60 students in each grade, he said.

The new high school will have 50 percent more classroom space and twice the current laboratory space in an oversize chemistry lab and a biology lab with prep room.

The school will also have a 60-seat lecture hall, media production studio, "black box" theater and a student activities center. A 10,000 square foot gym with multi-purpose space will also be built.

A quad courtyard with shade trees will bring the high school and existing Posnack School buildings together in a unified campus.

Cuenca said the fundraising Promise Campaign, and lead gifts and partners, have raised the "seed money" to construct a new school building. Paul and Maggie Fischer are the lead donors for the project. An anonymous lead donor is behind the construction of the gym.

A loan for the remaining funds needed for construction will create a school debt of about $3.5 million, Cuenca said.

David Posnack Jewish Day School board chair Craig Feldman of Plantation, whose parents were one of two school founding families in 1974, said the new high school building is part of a bigger mission that touches the entire Jewish community in Broward County . "The kids will come back and become leaders," he said.

Feldman remembers when the David Posnack Hebrew Day School opened in trailers. A high school building on the Posnack campus at the Soref JCC was completed in 2002. The high school moved students from the Soref site to the Posnack School's Davie campus three years ago to consolidate the lower and middle schools on one campus. The high school moved into renovated second floor space inside the Federation's Katz Building.

"The plan was never to keep the high school in that building," Feldman said. "There are logistical challenges plus we've really outgrown that space."

Claudia Cusnir, the Posnack School's parent and teacher organization president, has two children in the Jewish day school. Students get "not only the good education but the Jewish [component] as well," Cusnir said. "Our kids are going to be the future Jewish leaders. Everybody looks out for the next generation."
