
The Boko Haram members have demanded for the release of their top commanders, after which they would start releasing up to half of the Chibok school girls currently in their den since April 14, fresh reports have shown.

According to Telegraph, the terror group is willing to conduct a “gradual” release of the girls if the federal government frees their members detained in various prisons across the country.

According to the report, efforts are being made behind the scenes to secure the release of the students with an agreement reached in principle to release some of the hostages gradually.

“Contrary to the public rejection of any swap deal by the Nigerian government, there are some on-the-ground talks taking place. An agreement was reached about two or three days ago in principle to start releasing some prisoners”, a source told the paper.

It was gathered that the sect is prepared to release the girls gradually in locations where they can be picked up by the authorities.

“Depending on how the other side responds, the girls will be released in small groups. They will be left at a certain safe location, and the authorities will then be told as to where they can pick them up from”.

There has been no official confirmation of these talks by the Federal Government, neither has there been any from the military headquarters.

I appeal to the President of Nigeria to do everything humanly possible to secure the release of abducted girls without any further delay. May Allah grant him the strength to accomplish this national assignment.

My comment goes these way, FaG should never in the least to accept such condition of releasing their men for the exchange of the chibok schoolgirls. Such agreement or condition have never been happen any where in the world but i trusted the u.s militry.

The government should not accept such a deal,it’s an abomination,we ‘re trying to fight Boko Haram and the Govt is releasing their members,which means there won’t be peace in Nigeria,what  if the Govt releases their members and Boko Haram refuses to release the girls or all of them.Food for thought.

It is time we get one fact clear, many have died in divers’ ways, and making exchange for those girls will bring more death in the near future, if not tomorrow. I have said that, the federal govt. should send in our troops, forget US, Britain, France or whatever intelligence.

Wipe all that area; bring down anyone that resists arrest. If we loose the girls, all Nigeria can do is keep a day aside for their remembrance, NATIONAL DAY FOR CHIBOK GIRLS.

Look should those girls be brought back, and BH members released, there will be more turbulence. Go in there, raid the area, kill anyone that resists arrest, I assure you, we will probably bring those girls completely out or few down. But then, BH will be abolished.

Hmmmnn, nawaaooo. A whole Nigeria, dis is an eye opener.

If our govt. and armed forces want to work, they can always get the girls released alife and still arrest their kidnappers. If it is the President’s child or the Senetor’s child that is being kidnapped, will we be bargaining with any body about release or no release. Let’s be honest to ourselves. Please let the appropriate authorities do their job and do it fast. That is why they are paid. If not, what goes around must surely come around one day. Previously it was Xtians versus Moslems and every kept quiet and were even aiding the Menes. Now it is coming too close to everyone. Be warned.

I’m so ashamed of d man called Goodluck Jonathan.He’s not exhibiting his role as a leader.having fully known d sponsors of BH,he’s still so nonchallant,afterall they’ve not entered asorock 2 attack him.He dosnt deserve 2 rule us cos a true father/leader protects but he’s comfortably ignoring our plights fighting 4 next term.God will give us a justified Leader wen d time comes.

I don’t believe this story. It is just the imagination of the writer.

Pls federal govt shud seek d release of all abducted by boko haram not only d chibok bcos they too are nigerian.God bless federal republic of nigeria.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
