
Editor’s note: The following story was submitted by the West Haven Board of Education.

WEST HAVEN >> West Haven High School teacher Joanne Poffenberger sat patiently waiting Sunday afternoon, as her long, dark hair was split into four pony tails and local stylist Teddi McKenna readied her clippers.

A few minutes later, Poffenberger held her locks in her lap, while her family and students cheered her on and McKenna put the finishing touches on her new buzz cut. It was a dramatic change, but all for a good cause.

Poffenberger and around 80 other West Haven teachers, students and community members got their heads shaved Sunday in the WHHS courtyard during the first Westie Day of Hope, organized by Carrigan Intermediate School Assistant Principal Rich Weber and WHHS biology teacher Kevin Dickson. The event raised more than $13,500 for Camp Rising Sun, a Connecticut camp for kids from across the state who currently have or previously battled cancer.

Carrigan and WHHS partnered in 2012 to raise money for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation and Camp Rising Sun through a head-shaving rally, with Bailey Middle School joining the effort in 2013. This year, Dickson and Weber wanted to include the entire school district and the community and focus on a local organization that helps kids with cancer.

Sunday’s shavees were asked to make a donation, thereby helping to cover costs to send youngsters to camp and at the same time showing support for cancer patients who lose hair during treatment. Some were motivated by personal experiences.

“A close family friend had leukemia. I just wanted to raise money for the cause and draw attention to it by doing something drastic,” said Poffenberger, a science teacher.

Others opted to go bald simply because they wanted to show support for children with cancer.

Nearly 20 local barbers and stylists donated their time to shave heads, and they had a steady stream of “customers” throughout the four-hour event.

While Sunday’s gathering was centered around the head-shaving rally, students from West Haven school and community clubs manned booths that sold snacks and offered games and activities. Booths raised funds for charities of their choice and Camp Rising Sun. The school district’s food services program also provided lunch.

Additionally, students helped collect $400 for a community service scholarship in honor of former WHHS secretary Donna D’Amico, who shaved her head at the school system’s first event in 2012 and died earlier this year after fighting cancer.

Weber said it was overwhelming to see how quickly people threw their support behind the cause, but that he wasn’t surprised by their generous spirit.

“The money raised through the head-shaving station will help put smiles on the faces of kids at Camp Rising Sun this summer, and the Westie Day of Hope and all of our West Haven community can say that we gave back and supported those in need — that’s what Westies do,” said Weber, who has volunteered at Camp Rising Sun in the past.

Dickson said the day was all about helping Camp Rising Sun’s courageous clientele.
