
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BIRMINGHAM, Alabama -- The Birmingham Board of Education has unanimously approved a resolution petitioning the Jefferson County Commission for a special election to consider raising property taxes in Birmingham.

If approved by the commission, the election would take place Sept. 9. Voters would consider whether to increase property taxes by 3 mills for a period of 30 years beginning Oct. 1.

Board President Randall Woodfin said that translates to a property tax increase of $2.50 per month for a property valued at $100,000.

The election and the property tax increase would only apply to Birmingham, not the full county.

Superintendent Craig Witherspoon said the extra dollars, if approved by voters, would go to promote ongoing educational programs and initiatives being pushed by the board, as well as make the school system less dependent on state dollars.

"We know some of our neighboring school systems have a little bit more effort than we do," he said.

Witherspoon said the funds would help the school system increase its foreign language and fine-arts offerings, increase the number of pre-K classrooms throughout the system and help expand the system's career academies .

He also noted the school system's administrative expenses have declined sharply over the past few years, dropping to 3.7 percent when the state recommended maximum is 5 percent.

Witherspoon hopes to expand the school system's career academies, which function somewhat like a high school major, until all high school students in the system are in a career academy.

The proposal comes after BCS Chief Financial Officer Arthur Watts told the board in April that the school system was too dependent on the state for its revenue .

According to Watts, of the school system's $201.45 million in budgeted revenues for fiscal 2014, 59 percent comes from the state while just 39 percent comes from local property taxes.

He said that makes the school system vulnerable to state spending cutbacks that occur during down economic years.

Watts also noted that, in some of the state's most successful school districts, local revenues account for a larger portion of their revenues than do state sources.

Watts said a budget with 45 percent in local revenues would be the ideal situation for the Birmingham City Schools.

Asked by Woodfin in April what a 3 mill property tax increase would do for the school system, Watts said it would increase local revenues to 41.1 percent of the system's total budget.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
