
LOWELL — Per Onsager and Craig Miller have one important thing in common: Both hold the somewhat unusual belief that engineers can make a difference in people’s lives, by solving problems that many of us have the luxury of taking for granted.

The two men are at different stages of their careers. Onsager just graduated from the University of Massachusetts Lowell this weekend. Miller, an active alumnus of the same program, owns a successful business.

Senior projects are an engineering-school staple, intended to display the knowledge students have accumulated through their coursework.

Typically, one might involve thinking through how to fix a bridge or improve a dam near campus. Almost none of them require negotiating the Haitian capital and surrounding countryside for a week to design a warehouse.

But that is what the students did. The warehouse is for medical supplies used by Partners In Health, the beloved Boston nonprofit that provides medical care in underdeveloped countries.

His advisers were sympathetic, but the idea of designing or building a project in another country seemed out of reach. Finally, the school’s dean suggested that Onsager talk to Miller.

The adviser didn’t even know that Haiti has been a consuming passion of Miller’s for 17 years, nearly his entire career. When he was just out of school, he had become involved in renovating an orphanage in Port-au-Prince. It marked his first time in Haiti, and over the years that followed, Miller would return. As for many others, the place had grabbed a piece of his heart.

All of which made him the perfect partner for Onsager and his senior project. Miller helped steer the way and, after much deliberation and a failed attempt to partner with students from another university, Onsager was able to assemble a team to work on designing a warehouse in Haiti.

He and his fellow students Brendan Sprague, Karen Yaipen-Definis, Mark Georgian, and Jonathan Ernst traveled to the site of their project during spring break, where they got a crash course in engineering in the real world.

Their work, done with limited resources, required making a host of engineering decisions, engaging locals to work with them for nominal sums, and navigating the bureaucracy of a foreign country. In the process, they learned firsthand what people who live in Haiti grapple with every day.

Whether their design will get built is unclear. Partners in Health is juggling a number of potential projects in the area, and whether the warehouse is their greatest need has yet to be figured out.

But for the students, the fate of their design is secondary to the hands-on education they got in trying to come to terms with — and solve — the problems of an impoverished area. It opened their eyes, they said, to what engineering can accomplish.

Edward Hajduk, dean of the engineering school, said the project has already had an impact among his students: 18 have signed up to raise money to fund another senior trip to Haiti next year. For a program committed to connecting theory and practice, that’s a welcome development.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
