
PANAJI: Around 40 third year computer engineering students from different institutes across Goa met  Goa University (GU) officials on Monday to complain that questions that were not part of the syllabus in the subject of automata language and computation (ALC) were "unfairly" asked at an exam for the academic year 2013-14. Students have submitted different memorandums to GU officials stating that the " out of syllabus" questions were worth between 31 and 37 marks and led to a vast majority of third-year computer engineering students failing in the subject, creating an unnecessary backlog for them.

After meeting the Goa University controller of examinations  Donald Rodrigues and other varsity officials on Monday morning, the students told mediapersons that many students had applied for reevaluation in the subject after the exam was held towards the end of 2013, but only a small percentage was able to clear the exam even after the reevaluation. So the students have now demanded that the Goa University employ the "scaling method" to assess them in the paper.

"Scaling method means that the disputed 31 marks worth of questions will be left aside and students will be evaluated only out of the remaining marks, considering those as the total or 100% marks. This method had been employed by the university once in the past to resolve a similar dispute," one of the students said.

He said that students decided to meet university officials on Monday after previous representations did not yield any results.

According to the memorandum submitted to Goa University, the questions that were supposedly "out of syllabus' or tougher than the expected level for the third year class were question 2b (worth three marks) in module 1 and questions 5a (worth 10 marks), 6a (8 marks) and 6c (10 marks) in module 3. Students of one engineering college also said that some more questions worth another six marks from module 2 were also 'tougher than the expected level for their class".

"Despite multiple corrections, the result is unsatisfactory. We believe that we are being made to suffer for a question paper that was flawed and not of the level that can be passed by a majority of students," the memorandum to GU officials said.

The GU controller of examinations was unavailable for comment.
