
President sets election-winning education reform plans in motion, targeting pre-school improvements, profits, copayments and discriminatory selection.

The government sent the first bill in what it describes as Chile’s biggest educational reform in half a century to Congress on Monday, but student leaders say they were not involved in its drafting and have vowed to continue protests, beginning at this week’s state of the nation address.

President Michelle Bachelet signed-off the first phase of the educational reform that could define her tenure Monday morning, pledging to create a more efficient pre-school sector and to end profit-making among state-funded schools.

The bill represents the president’s first piece of legislature in a program which aims to deliver free higher education to all by 2020.

The student movement has been a thorn in the side of recent governments — reforms introduced during Bachelet’s first term were roundly criticized , while protests threatened to derail former President Sebastián Piñera’s administration in 2011.

Bachelet’s new bill consists of two projects — the first will see the appointment of a new Undersecretary of Pre-school Education, charged with providing greater regulation, funding, evaluation and support.

Additionally, the government program pledged to construct 4,500 new nurseries and 1,200 new kindergartens, creating 90,000 spaces for children younger than two years old and a further 34,000 primary education places for minors.

Under the terms of the second project, all profits earned by schools that receive state support must be reinvested in improving education quality for students. The president also announced her government’s aims to eradicate both copayments and state-funded schools’ current selection processes.

Bachelet said that increasing investment would reduce and ultimately bring an end to copayment. The country’s poorest have been identified as the priority group for the funding.

“In the third year after the introduction of this legislation, the government will have equalled the total amount contributed by parents through copayments today, and in a further 10 years we will have doubled this amount,” the president claimed in front of the crowd at La Moneda.

Bachelet also announced plans to remove existing selection processes in state-funded schools in order to provide greater freedom of choice for families. These schools will be prohibited from applying selection processes that discriminate against any socio-economic, ethnic or cultural backgrounds.

While receiving applause and support from her ministers and government parliamentarians at the ceremony, Dep. Felipe Kast of the right-leaning Evopoli party said that the reforms neglected those most important in ensuring quality education.

Perhaps most concerning for the government was criticism coming from the student movement, which ensured education became one of the most important platforms in Bachelet’s current administration.

Spokesperson for the National Assembly of High School Students (Aces), Lorenza Soto, told press that the reforms “run counter to the what the majority of Chileans” are demanding, and would end up benefiting those profiting from education.

Students have organized the second major march of the year, this time in Valparaíso, to coincide with Bachelet’s state of the nation address from Congress on Wednesday.

Eugene studies Spanish and Italian at Bristol University. He specializes in sports and is interested in international business, science and health.
