
He also played the same number of rounds of golf.

The military post had reported an active shooting situation via social media Monday morning.

Undersecretary Brothers launches collaborative online channel for feedback on long-term strategies.

Retiring Wisconsin Republican says he is looking forward to the results of the inquiry he requested earlier this year.

Allegations of feds abusing telework at Patent and Trademark Office put honest employees and managers in a tough spot.

Eugene W. Grant is conducting city business in a tent.

But when he’s not cranking out news stories at a prodigious pace, Charlie moonlights for the Falls Church News-Press , writing about life in his beloved hometown of Arlington, Va., as the “Our Man in Arlington” columnist. Now, many of those columns have been compiled into a book, Arlington County Chronicles (History Press).

Not surprisingly, given the fact that Arlington sits perched right across the river from the nation’s capital, the book features several vignettes about how the federal government has touched the lives of Arlingtonians, especially those who work for Uncle Sam.

Washington’s closest suburb is home to some 34,000 of the 800,000 federal employees who were furloughed by the new downtown radicals’ budget faceoff, many of them my neighbors.

Daily, I watched as dads walked their kids to school (how do you explain a furlough to a first-grader?) and puttered in their yards. One devoted the forced downtime to renovating a bathroom; another did volunteer work with youth.

Agencies headquartered in Ballston were hit hard by the “appropriations lapse.” The National Science Foundation idled 99 percent of its 2,100 workers, while the Fish and Wildlife Service furloughed 7,300 of its 9,300. One that was spared through the miracle of multiyear funding was the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

The swirl of politics, economics and personalities that informed the BRAC process produced important, if painful, moves to rationalize the nation’s obligations in defense spending.

The book includes dozens of other tales of Arlington life over the years, including the story of how the Declaration of Independence and other founding documents made a brief pit stop there on their way to safekeeping away from Washington during the War of 1812, and a look at whether the Internet was invented in the town. Al Gore, as it turns out, lived in Arlington, but that’s not really the story. To find out what is, you’ll have to buy the book.

Want to contribute to this story? Share your addition in comments .

By using this service you agree not to post material that is obscene, harassing, defamatory, or       otherwise objectionable. Although GovExec.com does not monitor comments posted to this site (and       has no obligation to), it reserves the right to delete, edit, or move any material that it deems       to be in violation of this rule.
