
• Wayne Flanagan Tobin with the ties left behind after his posters were removed.

A LOCAL Election candidate running on the Southside has said he believes some of his posters were removed from lampposts recently because he is gay.

Wayne Flanagan Tobin, a graduate of Trinity College Dublin, who is campaigning in Pembroke/South Dock, suspects the sinister attacks on his posters across Ballsbridge and Donnybrook took place because of his sexuality.

Mr Flanagan Tobin, who is a suicide prevention campaigner, first noticed his posters disappearing from the lampposts near where he lives.

“I then started to receive angry phone calls and texts from people giving out that the ties that held the posters to the lampposts had been left behind so I went out to collect them,” he said. “In some cases the ties had been burned so the posters could be removed.

“I have to say that I believe I have been targeted because of my sexuality.

Mr Flanagan Tobin had erected approximately 100 posters in the area only recently, as that was all he could afford with his budget.

“It was obviously a very deliberate attempt to derail my campaign,” he added.

“My posters were removed while those of other candidates were left alone, so the attack was clearly aimed at me.

“I am very passionate about the issues I believe in, which includes suicide prevention, that is personally very close to me, and human rights, so it hurts me that my campaign has been targeted in this way.

“I have been receiving a brilliant response on the doorsteps and have not experienced any negativity at all so I was particularly shocked to see this happening to my posters.

Mr Flanagan Tobin publicly revealed he was gay as he was interviewed on the Council Matters programme on Dublin City FM earlier this year.

Deirdre de Búrca, a former MEP candidate for Dublin, and law lecturer Vincent Salafia, were among some high profile people to endorse him.

He is connected with the ‘People Before Parties’ group, which is not a political party, but a group of independent candidates seeking election to Dublin City Council and Dún Laoghaire Rathdown County Council.
