
Photograph by: Twitter                , .

PRINCE GEORGE — Grief counsellors will be on hand at Prince George's six high schools Tuesday morning to help students and staff cope with the deaths of two teens during an post-prom party at Gravel Pit Lake.

Hundreds of students were partying at the popular hangout, known officially as Kwitzil Lake, when they saw a car plunge into the water at about 4 a.m. Many ran into the lake to try to rescue the male and female inside, but lost sight of the vehicle as it quickly sank, according to comments posted on social media. The lake has a steep drop-off at a 45-degree angle about three feet from shore.

"There were kids who were there and saw and ran into the water," Prince George Mayor Shari Green said. "I feel for them; it must have been devastating."

Kendall Gabriella Moore, aged 17, and 19-year-old Craig Wood both died when the vehicle they were in went into Kwitzil Lake, also know as Gravel Pit Lake..

Their school, D.P. Todd Secondary, posted a tweet Sunday that read: "Info coming in about the tragedy at gravel pit lake. Please everyone breathe deep and take care. School will have supports in place for Tuesday."

A memorial was planned for the two students Monday afternoon.

Brian Pepper, superintendent of schools, declined an interview with The Vancouver Sun and would not discuss the identities of the victims. He said in a statement that he felt it was inappropriate to comment because there is an "ongoing investigation into the events."

He did say, however, that the gathering at the lake was not connected to any parent-sponsored prom or grad event, nor was it connected to any school-sponsored event, but will affect students and staff at all six high schools across the city.

"School staff will be briefed about response protocol in each secondary school and the counselling departments of each school will receive and respond to students in need of support beyond that provided by their families over the last two days of the weekend," Pepper said in the statement. "In addition, our district behaviour team will be available to address specific needs as required."

Many on social media were upset that it took so long for police to pull the car out of the lake. Although volunteer firefighters arrived first, Prince George Search and Rescue didn't get to the lake until three hours later, at which time the youth had been pushed back from the shoreline and were either huddling around campfires, were in their tents or milling about, search manager Heather MacRae said.

The car was found about 17 feet deep and 15 feet from shore. It was difficult to spot, she said, because the car was black. "We could see through the underwater camera bits and pieces of it," MacRae said.

The team marked the located car for the RCMP dive team, which didn't retrieve the bodies until 4 p.m. Sunday.

Cpl. Craig Douglass said it will take some time to sift through all the information to find out what happened. The B.C. Coroners Service is also investigating.

Green said she can't imagine how the incident has affected the students who tried to help those in the water. The tragedy sparked a social media blitz from fellow classmates, friends and people in the community. "RIP Kendall Moore, you were a sweet, smart, beautiful girl with a great life ahead of you. We will miss you," tweeted Caitlin.

"RIP Kendall Moore and Craig Woods only the good die young," Karli May Lafon wrote on Facebook. "You guys will be forever in our hearts."

Green said the youth had attended a prom earlier in the evening before heading out to the lake, which is about 42 kilometres west of Prince George. A dry grad is planned for D.P. Todd students later this month, she added, and will likely be well attended, but alcoholic after-parties are still common for city youth.

"Some people call it a right of passage," Green said. "A lot of these kids are 18 years old, which is old enough to drink in Alberta but not in B.C. It's difficult to say no or tell them no. They will find a way to get together."

Gravel Pit Lake has long been a popular location for parties because it's not far from town and is an easy place to camp, Green said. Mounties had also set up roadblocks in and out of the area and "it was my understanding that they were a well-behaved group having fun.

"It just ended badly, tragically," she said. "Something happened at the lake that nobody anticipated or planned. We have to figure out why the car went into the lake."

Nikki Ribeiro, who has a daughter at College Heights Secondary, noted her school's dry grad committee raised $27,000 for a one-night dry grad event, but that won't stop youth from also planning a wet after-grad. "It freaks me out every time," she said, adding wherever her daughter goes, she will be close by in case she needs a ride home.

"No matter what you do for kids they're always going to get together and do what they want. Celebrate their way, I guess," she said. "I just wish the kids were more responsible and would make better choices. These kids just had their prom; now they're not going to walk up to graduate."
