
Nostalgia is built into convocation exercises at Acadia University: the excitement, the robes, the history.

At the May 11 ceremony, the first of the three sets of graduations, Acadia’s president Ray Ivany began his excellent remarks by mentioning the 175th anniversary of the founding of the school, which seems like a very long time ago. It was a good day in 1838 when Baptist leaders met near Wolfville and decided to open a college that was free from religious affiliation.

I can’t sit in University Hall without my eye drifting to the plaque on the west wall, which commemorates the women who walked from Nictaux to promote further education. We don’t hear enough about them in the official histories.

My family history with Acadia is five generations long now that son Alan is a graduate. My great-grandfather didn’t finish his degree because he was needed on the family farm, but he always valued what he would have called “higher learning.” That belief has been passed down.

Although I only walked across the stage once, I did get to pick up both of my degrees. It was at one of the now discontinued fall convocations and we lined up outside the library. Today, graduates walk up the drive, now labeled Perkin Way, accompanied by the stirring marching music of bagpipes. Everyone hopes for a fine couple of days for the stroll.

I’ve heard a fair number of speeches over the years, some more preachy than others. One of the best addresses was delivered by renowned tenor Ben Heppner, who advised the graduates to find their passion, back it up with substance and show integrity. Painter Robert Bateman’s recent suggestion to breathe three times and think about pine needles was pretty wise, too.

I’ve heard a fair number of speeches over the years, some more preachy than others. One of the best addresses was delivered by renowned tenor Ben Heppner, who advised the graduates to find their passion, back it up with substance and show integrity.

The degree granting I remember best visually was the year actor Shirley MacLaine got to sit in the front row. MacLaine seemed to wait for a quiet moment and then let her robes fall open and crossed her attractive legs. The eyes of every man in the hall were glued on her.

I was happy to see that Emily Duffett of Kentville, who attended classes in a wheelchair, had completed a graduate degree. Getting to lectures on Acadia’s hilly campus alone is no easy feat in a wheelchair.

The fact that Jaret Smith of Coldbrook, who survived a serious car accident, not only graduated, but was listed as a university scholar for his academic achievements made me want to cheer. When the father of a student who died back in April got up to receive his son’s degree, many eyes got misty.

Even casual observers can feel parental chests bursting with pride on convocation day.
