
For the first time since the 1972-73 academic year, students who enrolled in the fall of 2012 will graduate in a four-year period without a base increase in tuition.

"Thanks go to all members of the Purdue family – faculty, staff and alumni – who have pulled together to break the cycle of annual cost increases and establish Purdue's commitment to keep its world-class education within the reach of all students," said President Mitch Daniels in a press release. "It's essential to note that our affordability efforts are proceeding side-by-side with major new investments in the excellence of our teaching and research."

As part of the Purdue Moves initiative to make college more affordable and accessible, the Board of Trustees' decision to approve Daniels' request to extend the tuition freeze is aimed to increase affordability and accessibility for students. Al Diaz, the University's treasurer and chief financial officer, said the extension is possible as long as there are "no unforeseen dramatic changes to the revenue outlook."

Additionally, the Financial Committee agreed to budget $5.1 million for Purdue Moves scholarships in 2015.

As a testament to their dedication to the University, Al Diaz and Tim Sands were presented with the Distinguished Hoosier Award. The award is meant to honor individuals with long, distinguished records for their contributions to the University and the State.

The first phase of finance and construction was cleared by the trustees for work on the Physics Building. Three million dollars will go toward replacing and upgrading the secondary electrical distribution in the south portion of the building, including the removal of an old generator, installation of a new automatic transfer switch and the installation of arc-flash mitigation breakers.

Additionally, plans were approved for the $10 million Agronomy Center Automated Phenotyping and Seed Processing Laboratory to test plant productivity on a large scale. Funding for the projects come primarily from gift funds to the University, along with a combination of university central reserve funds, bonds and repair and rehabilitation funds.

Additionally, the family donated $300,000 to help fund the construction of a molecular genetics teaching lab in Lilly Hall. The same amount will come from the first facility investment from the Purdue Moves plant sciences initiative.

"The Becks continually demonstrate their desire to keep Purdue at the forefront of innovation and education in agriculture," President Mitch Daniels said at the Board of Trustees meeting. "The need for leadership to make agriculture more productive is greater now than ever before as the world's population grows at a rapid pace. This gift helps to further Purdue's leadership in this vital mission."
