
PUNE: The declaration of the Central Board of Secondary Education's standard X results on Monday evening came as a surprise for many students in the city as the board announced the results of the Chennai region, including Pune, without prior intimation.

According to sources, the CBSE has been announcing the results without prior intimation for the past two years to avoid the hype before the results.

Schools in the city, however, did not complain as most of them recorded 100% pass percentage this year. Several students from city-based schools did well, where most scored the cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 10.

As many as 198 students from the Delhi Public School (DPS) appeared for the exam, of which a total of 71 students secured 'A1' grade and 41 students received 'A2' grade. As many as 59 students scored the CGPA of 10, which is the highest point.

"The school has performed well and we have kept our reputation. I feel that even with so many extra curricular activities, the students have performed well," DPS principal Neelam Chakrabarty said.

At the Army Public School, as many as 330 students appeared for the exam and the school managed to record 100% results. The school, however, was unable to give the details of the results in terms of grades received by students as the results were announced late and the compilation could not be done.

"The results were announced late and the server was slow. Therefore, we could not download the results. We will take some time to compile all the data. But I am happy that the school recorded 100% results and the students have performed well," Binita Poonekar, principal of the school, said.

The City International School also registered 100% results, where a total of 42 students appeared for the exam this year. As many as 15 students secured 'A1' grade and only three students secured second class. Nirmal Waddan, principal of the school said, "We have got used to the surprise announcement of results by the board. They did this last year also. I received an e-mail from the board authorities which said that the results have been announced. I informed the students and compiled the results later."

The Orchid School also registered 100% results. As many as 11 students of the school scored a CGPA of 10. Two students secured 'A1' grade, 13 secured 'A2' grade, 10 secured 'B1' grade and only one student secured 'B2' grade.

At the Jnana Prabodhini School, a total of 78 students appeared for the exam and all have passed. As many as 50 students scored 'A1' grade. A total of 14 students scored 100 marks in Sanskrit and one student scored 100 in Mathematics. About the surprise announcement of results for the second consecutive year, school principal Milind Naik said it is a welcome step keeping students' interests in mind. "Students become anxious and are uncertain as the result date approaches. The board's surprise declaration helps tackle the negativity," she said.

The Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV), Southern Command, also registered 100% result with 187 of their students appearing for the examination this year. However, the school could not compile the result break up of each student till evening.

As many as 172 students from the Army area KV took the examinations this year and all of them cleared successfully. As many as five students secured the CGPA of 10.

Geeta Balagangadharan, principal of the school, said, "This year, two new papers, problem solving assessment (PSA) and the open textbook assessment (OTA), were introduced. Because of these, there were fewer students who got the CGPA of 10. It is tough to train students in these papers and we do not know what may come. Since this was the first time, students could not be trained properly. Usually our school has more number of students with the CGPA of 10."

There are about 13 KVs in the city, however, the rest could not be contacted due to the ongoing summer vacations.
