
Drought and dry reservoirs keep making headlines, but water is still readily available at the tap and will likely always be. It is just a matter of cost. Rain events regularly replenish reservoirs and shallow groundwater, but, as it turns out, in cycles too long to meet the increasing water demand of human activities. Strategies such as conservation and reuse of waste water could go a long way to solve Texas' water problems, as will be discussed in Austin today at the 2014 Texas Water Summit.

However, there is a hidden resource the groundwater community in Texas has long been aware of. There is, in addition to fresh groundwater, larger volumes of brackish groundwater (more saline than fresh water but less saline than sea water) in the subsurface ready to be used. Or, at least, so is the commonly-held view. Brackish groundwater is drought-proof, because it is not recharged like fresh groundwater. It sits in the subsurface slowly dissolving minerals, which results in its higher-salinity characteristics. The downside of not being recharged is that it is not renewable, and using it is actually "mining" it.

Mining resources is an acceptable practice; we do it all the time starting with oil and gas in Texas. But, despite the obvious benefits, mining a resource comes at a cost. In the case of brackish water for municipal use, an obvious cost is the desalting treatment that brings the water to a salt level compatible with human consumption.

In the case of the oil and gas industry, the cost of using brackish water (in order to limit the use of fresh water), is associated with the need for deeper wells and more expensive water lines and storage pits.

Competition between municipal and oil and gas industry needs for access to brackish groundwater is limited, because the industry can use higher salinity water than municipal users. However, both cities and industry operators are up against geology.

Brackish groundwater is not recharged because, the ability of water to flow is low. This also means conditions for pumping brackish groundwater in some areas might be less than ideal. In other areas, perhaps those with isolated permeable sand bodies (that would first have to be located) surrounded by much less permeable material, wells could initially yield large volumes of brackish water, but, after a few months or years, water flow rate would become a trickle.

The real costs lie in developing brackish groundwater infrastructure not matching the locally available resources and also in ignoring the potential impacts of brackish groundwater withdrawals on the rest of the groundwater system. A well-funded statewide program is needed to assess the true potential of - and obstacles inherent to - using brackish groundwater.

The oil and gas industry traditionally has played the lead role in exploring this resource, but the efforts are still too disparate, uncoordinated and focused on the short-term rather than the long view typical of municipal water systems.

Launching a statewide program to kick-start local initiatives will go a long way toward solving its water woes. The early stages of an immense data collection effort, in which hydrogeologists at the University of Texas' Bureau of Economic Geology participate, are underway to address these points. This data collection program along with additional studies will allow the state to optimize the use of limited brackish groundwater resources and to develop a drought-resilient water strategy in Texas.
