
Sacred Heart University’s Business Administration club recently partnered with Junior Achievement of Western Connecticut to host an event at Daniels Farm Elementary School in Trumbull. Junior Achievement (JA) is a nonprofit organization that uses volunteers from the business community to deliver programs to K-12 students. These programs foster work-readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy skills by using experiential learning to inspire students to dream big and reach their potential.

SHU students with Professor Tuvana Rua, third from right, and Daniels Farm School Principal Gary Kunschaft, far right.

In addition to the JA curriculum, business club members also helped each class develop a product and slogan and then held a competition among the classes to see which product was the most creative and had the most marketability. The volunteers, grade school teachers and administrators then voted on each of the products, and the best product was selected from each grade level.

Brian Reilly ’16 from Mahopac, N.Y., said that working with Junior Achievement was great.

“I feel that working with JA has been a rewarding experience. They gave us great information that was clearly laid out to teach the program to the fourth and fifth graders. My favorite part of the event, though, was the competition at the end of the day — it really gave the students the opportunity to express their creativity and apply what they had learned earlier,” he said.

Melissa Poli, president of the Business Administration Club, was thrilled with how the event turned out. “We were able to encourage the children to take initiative in learning more about business and help them become confident and learn how to be successful in their future careers,” said the Yonkers, N.Y., native. “My favorite part of this program was seeing the joy and excitement on the students’ faces and seeing them remember and understand the information that was taught to them.

“We are looking forward to continuing our volunteer work with the Junior Achievement’s fourth- and fifth-grade classes at Daniels Farm Elementary School and hope to expand and work with high school students around Connecticut,” Poli said.

Rua noted that Junior Achievement is currently offered as one-credit management course, which will allow for expansion into area high schools.
