
It's gearing up to be a busy week at the Statehouse this week - with the fight for ethics reform and a bill that would allow seawalls leading the pack so far.

On ethics, it seems there's more disagreement than accord as a proposal heads to the House floor.

The ethics-related case being pursued by Attorney General Alan Wilson against House Speaker Bobby Harrell, R-Charleston, has interjected politics in way that lawmakers say makes even common sense reforms more difficult.

Some S.C. senators and Gov. Nikki Haley have already rejected the House's preliminary version of the bill. Haley's pushback on the House's proposal has rankled some members.

And outside critics have already dismissed parts of legislators' ethics push, saying the effort appears to be moving in the wrong direction.

House members say, though, that they are optimistic a bill that achieves sound reforms can be passed - even if not everyone is happy with it.

If a bill that would allow the construction of seawalls is going to get passed this year, it will likely need to pass the House this week to have enough time to be taken up in the S.C. Senate. The bill will be controversial: Seawalls exacerbate erosion and beaches have literally been swept away in front of them.

But the bill comes as escalating costs stymie community efforts to renourish, or re-sand eroding beaches up and down the coast. Delays in funding for the renourishment now underway at Folly Beach led to waves washing under homes and owners defying the state ban to protect their properties. The severely eroded beach has compromised the effectiveness of the renourishment itself.

The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.

We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .

© 2014, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.

All Rights Reserved.
