
May 19, 2014, 7 a.m.

Keep an eye out for a large number of pedestrians this Friday as families participate in National Walk Safely to School Day.

Learning rules: St Joseph's School deputy principal Brady Stallard, year four student Aquinas Callaghan, year one students Noel Callaghan, Amber Haues and Oliver Ellis and Oliver's mother Sarah Ellis know how to cross the road safely.

KEEP an eye out for a large number of pedestrians this Friday as families participate in National Walk Safely to School Day.

Students from around the Murraylands are being encouraged to get outside and be active on their way to and from school by walking as much of their daily route as possible.

St Joseph's School deputy principal Brady Stallard said the event was a chance for primary school-aged children to learn about health and fitness as well as road safety and the environment.

"We have a mix of students that walk to school, we have an increasing amount," Mr Stallard said.

"It's a good program to run to make sure more people have an active lifestyle," he said.

He said the event was endorsed in the classroom and through the school's newsletter.

"We promote the importance of walking for the effects on the environment and their health," he said.

Parent Sarah Ellis said her family walked part of the trip to school each day.

"We park a bit further away and then walk," she said.

"(The event) is a great opportunity for families to spend time together who may not have that time usually."

Mrs Ellis' son, year one student Oliver, said he enjoyed the walk to school.

"My legs don't get tired very much," he said.

Pedestrian Council of Australia chairman Harold Scruby said one in four children were overweight or obese and that was expected to increase to one in three by 2020.

"Children require at least 60 minutes per day of physical activity - and regular walking is the best exercise for us all," he said.

See all the glitz and glamour of this year's Mallee Formal, held at the Karoonda Town Hall.
