
Incumbent PNM political leader Dr Keith Rowley was “a bit anxious about the logistics” at the start of the party’s internal elections which has used the one-man-one-vote system for the first time, but his fears seemed allayed after he had cast his vote.

An estimated 82,000 PNM members were listed to vote in the historic poll which replaces the delegate format used by the party since 1956.

Rowley cast his ballot at about 11.15 am at St Anthony’s College where during the morning hours over 100 people stood in the line at any one time before noon waiting to vote.

One of the problems, he said was that many people did not bother to check their names on the lists and when they turned out to vote they could not vote in a particular area.

This was unlike the Elections Boundaries Commission which has continuous enumeration.

If persons who had not voted within the allotted time but were within the precincts of polling stations, he expected that they would have been allowed to vote.

“Whatever happens at the end of the day, the PNM would have done well,” he said.

The process is not cast in stone, he said, “and it may very well be” that the leadership could be elected at a different time from the executive of the party. The leadership includes the political leader, chairman, lady vice chairman and the general secretary.

Casting their ballots at Maraval RC School, Maraval were MPs for Diego Martin North East Colm Imbert and Diego Martin Central Dr Amery Browne. Imbert, who is contesting the position of vice chairman, said the process had been smooth and the lines short at the polling station.

The smoothness, he said, was directly tied to the experience of the persons managing the station. “I took less than two minutes to vote,” he said. He expected about 30 percent to 35 percent of the voters turning out.

Browne in brief remarks said “there were no major complaints” across the western peninsula.

Concerns were mainly about delays due in part with people coming to terms with the new system of the one-man one-vote.
