
Students at Haverford College struck back after former Princeton president called them "immature" and "arrogant"

Pennsylvania college students who were chastised by their commencement speaker Sunday for pressuring another speaker to withdraw from the event said Monday they were dismayed to get attacked at their own graduation ceremony.

“One of my professors called it an ‘ambush,’ one of them apologized that the college allowed that,” said Michael Rushmore, one of the Haverford College students who organized the protest against former University of California, Berkeley Chairman Robert Birgeneau. The protest, which called for Birgeneau to go further than before in taking responsibility for the use of force in a 2011 clash between campus police and Occupy protestors, ultimately led him to cancel his appearance. At commencement on Sunday, Former Princeton University President William Bowens called the students “arrogant” and “immature” for objecting to Birgeneau’s speech.

In their initial letter to Birgeneau, students said they were “deeply disturbed” by the 2011 altercation, in which campus police used force against nonviolent protesters. They called for Birgeneau to cancel his speech unless he publicly admitted responsibility for the police brutality, supported reparations for victims and pledged to lead efforts to ensure universities respect protester rights.

Birgeneau replied in a letter to the students that he “never and never will” respond to a list of demands, and said he would not respond to “untruthful, violent verbal attacks.” He backed out of the speech, and Bowen used the altercation to chastise the students.

“I am disappointed that those who wanted to criticize Birgeneau’s handling of events at Berkeley chose to send him such an intemperate list of ‘demands,’” Bowen said Sunday.

Rushmore seemed to take some pride that the protest was publicly acknowledged in Bowen’s speech.

Twenty-two faculty members (about 20% of the tenured faculty) sent the Class of 2014 a note after the speech congratulating students on their graduation and condemning Bowen’s comments, saying his “condescending speech marred an otherwise celebratory occasion.
