
These excuses work, except for scholarships that don’t require a good GPA or much time.

Scholarship applications can be intimidating. It’s easy to think you’re not eligible or that there’s a better candidate out there, so why waste your the time and effort? Aside from the fact that there are many scholarships plenty of students qualify for and that a pretty good student is bound to land something, there’s another side to the scholarship story.

Below are four easy scholarships almost any student qualifies for.

Are you a United States citizen and a high school senior or college undergraduate student? Then you can win $1,000. Nope, no other qualifications. Just be what you already are.

Each year, U.S. Bank gives away 40 $1,000 scholarships for simply being an American citizen who will be or is attending college. All you have to do is fill out some basic information about yourself and then the applications will be drawn at random.

It takes hardly any time at all, and consider this: If it takes you an hour to fill out the application and you win, you’ve just made $1,000 for an hour’s worth of work. Not bad pay for a college kid.

It truly doesn’t get easier than that.

Most scholarships come but once a year (and some once in a lifetime). The beauty of the $2,000 “No essay” Scholarship is that it comes once a month and you can apply every single month.

And the application is as easy as can be. In fact, you could have filled it out probably 20 times since starting to read this article. You can only apply once a month, but if you’re a current or incoming college student and know basic information about yourself (name, address, etc.), then you can win $2,000. Winners are drawn at random.

The scholarship, offered through College Prowler , has a deadline at the end of every month.

Even better than once-a-month is once-a-week. Granted, the Zinch.com weekly scholarship is not as simple as merely filling out basic information about yourself, it’s almost that simple.

You can apply every week, once a week. Have fun with it.

It seems nearly every website wants you to register. It’s not enough to simply use a site’s service from time to time, apparently. But not many sites offer as great a possible reward as Scholarship Zone does.

It can take a huge load off your tuition bill.

Don’t let student loan debt unnecessarily pile up. The excuse of not being qualified for scholarships can work for certain scholarships but not for these ones.

Laziness, in this case, can cost you thousands of dollars. Take a few minutes out of your day and rake in that dough.
