
Elizabeth Harter, daughter of manufacturer and banker Cornelius Aultman, and stepmother Katherine Barron Aultman deeded 4.5 acres of land to the Aultman Hospital Association in 1891. Aultman opened Jan. 17, 1892. Dr. James Fraunfelter performed the first surgery months later, attempting to save the life of Norman L. Deuble, who fell off his high-wheeled bicycle and struck his head.

A: In September 2013, Aultman Health Foundation added the North Canton Medical Foundation’s clinical practice, now renamed Aultman North Canton Medical Group. The agreement gave physicians access to additional support services, new technologies, and other resources.

A: In December, Akron Children’s Hospital began operating the inpatient pediatric unit on the fifth floor of Aultman Hospital. The unit features private rooms large enough for one parent to spend the night and child-friendly décor. Board-certified pediatric doctors called hospitalists care for the children, and child-life specialists are on hand to help patients and families.

A: Recently, Aultman Hospital officially opened its new retail space located between the hospital’s two main lobbies. The 6,000 square-foot retail space, known as The Shoppes at Aultman, includes an expansion of the flower, gift and uniform shops, as well as a retail pharmacy. Proceeds from The Shoppes will help raise money for the new Aultman Cancer Center, a $20 million project scheduled to start later this year.

Q: Share something readers might not know about Aultman.

A: Aultman College now offers its first bachelor’s degree program — an RN to BSN completion program. The 15-course degree program is comprised of face-to-face evening and weekend courses with low student-teacher ratios. Students are able to connect personally with faculty and staff, while enjoying a flexible curriculum.

Aultman Hospital, an 808-bed nonprofit at 2600 Sixth St. NW, Canton, has some expansions and news to share, including a new bachelor’s degree program at Aultman College of Nursing and Health Sciences, the addition of a clinical practice in North Canton, enhanced pediatric care and new retail space.

• Aultman College now offers its first bachelor’s degree program, an RN to BSN completion program. The 15-course degree program is comprised of face-to-face evening and weekend courses with low student-teacher ratios. For more information, visit www.AultmanRNtoBSN.com.

• In September, Aultman Health Foundation added the North Canton Medical Foundation’s clinical practice, which has been renamed the Aultman North Canton Medical Group, 6046 Whipple Ave. NW. The agreement gave physicians access to additional support services, new technologies, and other resources, according to Tiffany Zingg, corporate communications. Visit www.ancmg.com.

• Akron Children’s Hospital operates the inpatient pediatric unit on the fifth floor of Aultman Hospital, which features 27 beds. Since December, the unit has offered private rooms large enough for one parent to spend the night. Board-certified pediatric doctors, called hospitalists, care for the children, and child life specialists are on hand to help patients and families.

• Aultman Hospital has opened its new retail space between the hospital’s two main lobbies. The 6,000- square-foot retail space, known as the Shoppes at Aultman, includes an expansion of the flower, gift and uniform shops, as well as a retail pharmacy.

One area of the retail space, the Shoppes Boutique, meets the needs of cancer patients and survivors by offering full-service cancer care products. Specializing in image recovery needs, the Shoppes Boutique includes skin care items, scarves, turbans, wigs and breast prostheses. For mothers and babies, the Shoppes at Aultman also provides lactation products, including breast pumps and accessories. Aultman Home Medical Supply, a service that manages the selection, delivery, setup and maintenance of home medical equipment, has products available in the retail space.

Proceeds from The Shoppes will help raise money for the new Aultman Cancer Center, a $20 million project scheduled to start later this year. For more information, visit aultman.org.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
