
To say Jesse C. Long Sr. knew every nook and cranny of the Greater Atlanta Christian School campus is hardly an understatement. From helping install the infrastructure for the Norcross school, to welcoming the first students, Long had a story about every building.

“No job was beneath him when it came to the school,” said his son Ned O’Brien, of Duluth.

Long served as the president of the Christian school from 1963, the year before its first students entered, until his retirement in 1998, when he became the institution’s chancellor, Morris said.

Jesse Ceymore Long Sr., of Johns Creek, died Thursday of complication from Parkinson’s disease. He was 81.

A funeral is planned for 2 p.m. Wednesday in the Long Forum at Greater Atlanta Christian School, Norcross. Burial will follow at Arlington Memorial Park in Sandy Springs. Crowell Brothers Funeral Home is in charge of final arrangements.

Long was born in Jackson County, Tenn., and began to understand the importance of education from an early age. Long’s mother was a schoolteacher and wanted her sons to have a “good Christian education,” O’Brien said. After the family left Tennessee, they settled in Ohio, but Long’s parents sent him and a younger brother to a Christian boarding school in Valdosta for their primary education.

Long embraced preaching as his vocation, and often found ways to merge his love of education and religion, including the establishment of Greater Atlanta Christian. He was a minister for over 30 years and an elder of the Campus Church of Christ from 1972 until he died.

While Long was adamant about educating young people while teaching Christian values, he was not a fan of the spotlight, friends and family said.

The way Long loved children was not only evident at the school, but also in his personal life. After the death of his first wife Jacqulin Turner Long, he married Marilyn O’Brien, who had children from a previous marriage.

Morris said that in her 19 years at the school, she can’t remember a time she didn’t see Long engaged with the school’s students. The relationships he established with the young people carried over into adulthood, said Ronnalee Strickland, a graduate and now employee of Greater Atlanta Christian.

Jesse C. Long Jr., of Lubbock, Texas, said at the end of the day, his father wanted to help educate children and glorify the kingdom of God.

In addition to his namesake and Ned O’Brien, Long is survived by sons, Mark Long and Marc O’Brien, both of Duluth; daughter Gay Lewis of Lawrenceville; brother William J. Long, of Dunwoody; sister Anne Gentry, of Mount Juliet, Tenn.; 13 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.

Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
