
The much awaited ‘Subhapradham’ summer training camp, organised by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) under the aegis of their Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad (HDPP) wing, began on an impressive note at Mahati Auditorium here on Monday.

The venue wore a festive look with the indistinctive chatter of children, who seemed busy in exchanging pleasantries with their counterparts from various districts. The programme envisaged by the TTD to inculcate the values embedded in the ‘Hindu Sanatana Dharma’, is being organised for the third consecutive year. Over 18,000 students across the State, will undergo training at 43 different centres during the week-long event.

Addressing the gathering, Sri Swaswarupananda Swamy of Vasisthashram termed ‘teenage’ as an important phase in a person’s life, as it would decide the fate of the individual as well as that of the society, depending on the qualities acquired during the phase.

B.Vengamma, Director and Vice Chancellor of Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), said that proper guidance to children at such a tender age would mould them as good citizens of the country. “In this era dominated by technology, children are not taught about basic etiquettes and seldom know on how to react to certain issues happening in the society. Such programmes would go along way in impacting the emotional quotient of the teenagers, who are constantly burdened by their studies,” she said.

Lauding the efforts of TTD management for conducting the event, Vedic University Vice Chancellor K.E. Devanathan termed ‘Hindu Sanatana Dharma’ as a way of life. He further advised the students to follow their heart and assess their acts everyday by maintaining a journal.

TTD Trust Board Chairman K. Bapiraju thanked the parents for placing their trust in the organisation and said that teaching children about ethics, human values and service mindedness would have an ‘impressionable effect’ on their behaviour and character.

Executive Officer M.G. Gopal and Tirupati Joint Executive Officer Pola Bhaskar said that a combination of concepts like knowledge, character, courage, time management, will power and devotion would be dealt during the programme. Tirumala Joint Executive Officer K.S. Srinivasa Raju, HDPP Special Officer Sriram Raghunath and other officials took part.
