
A physical education teacher accused of verbally and physically harassing his students at Riverglades Elementary School in Parkland may receive a 10-day suspension Tuesday.

At first, P.E. teacher Robert Konnovitch faced a five-day suspension without pay, but that went up to 10 days after new complaints surfaced and several meetings with the school's principal went awry.

According to an administrative complaint, students in early 2014 said Konnovitch had tried to kick one of them in the head. In addition, a parent complained the teacher referred to a Hispanic student as "Miguel," which was not the boy's name. Konnovitch continued to call him that even after he asked the teacher to stop.

The student and others in the class took it to be a putdown.

After school principal Jo-Anne Seltzer set up a meeting with Konnovitch about the complaints, parents and students started piling on more accusations.

Konnovitch "called students losers, stupid, idiots, and annoying and tells them to shut up," according to the complaint, while referring to other students as "slow and scrawny."

Seltzer scheduled a second meeting to address these new complaints on the same day as the first meeting. She recommended a five-day suspension without pay, given Konnovitch's documented employment history, which includes a written reprimand that he assaulted a student in 2008.

But before the Broward School Board could make it official, another parent complained to Seltzer that Konnovitch was angry, used profanity, and refused to let students use the bathroom.

Konnovitch was "uncooperative and unprofessional" in a meeting with parents, so Seltzer bumped the suspension up to 10 days. The school board is expected to approve the decision Tuesday.

At the last School Board meeting, Superintendent Robert Runcie delivered a different complaint against Edouard Jean.

That complaint accuses Jean of physically abusing a nonverbal special needs student.

A physical therapist saw Jean, who worked as a special needs teacher at Crystal Lake Middle School in Pompano Beach, hit the student with a mop handle and a ruler on different occasions.

The board will vote on whether to fire Jean at the Tuesday meeting.
