
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

DA leader Helen Zille has struck back at her critics inside the party, saying some members of its federal executive were leaking information to the media to further their political ambitions.

"It is unfortunate that some members of this leadership body are furnishing the media with selective leaks in order to advance their own succession agendas, both in the parliamentary caucus and in the party," said Zille.

This follows reports at the weekend that Zille had attacked the DA's outgoing parliamentary leader, Lindiwe Mazibuko.

At a meeting of the DA's federal executive to discuss Mazibuko's decision to leave the party and study at Harvard University, in the US, Zille said she had answered all questions "dispassionately and accurately".

But some of her responses were leaked and it was claimed that she had told the DA's top structure that she had "made" and many times "saved" Mazibuko.

Zille retorted that she had worked hard to promote Mazibuko's career in the party, including setting aside her reservations when it became clear that Mazibuko wanted to stand against Athol Trollip for the position of DA parliamentary leader.

But Mazibuko built a "Berlin Wall" around herself after she was elected, Zille said.

"Major decisions were made without any discussion, resulting in serious mistakes, for which I then stepped forward and took responsibility. This is also common cause and evidenced by the record," said Zille.

A DA member of the Western Cape legislature said some members of the party were "fed up" with Zille and were looking at life beyond her leadership.

"They're working behind the scenes; some of them will regroup ahead of the next leadership contest. They're no longer fearful of Zille," said the MPL.

A senior DA staff member confirmed that some in the party had knives out for Zille, and that the party was going through a power struggle.

"There is a campaign of discrediting Helen [Zille]. She's under heavy pressure from inside the party," said the staff member.

A former DA MP said some in the party's parliamentary caucus felt "threatened" by the hype around Mmusi Maimane, who had been tipped to succeed Mazibuko.

"That's why they asked her [Zille] to lead the party in parliament but she's in a more powerful position as premier because she interacts much more closely with the president at cabinet lekgotlas."

If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.

You need to be logged in to post a reply.

You're an idiot. 'Them' being whites are not citizens of Europe, they cant just move back, most white seffricans have been here for many generations and only possess RSA passports so grow up, please.

© 2014 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.
