
The University of New Mexico will make space for the Albuquerque Institute for Mathematics and Science to expand this fall, but it may not happen in Rio Rancho without a waiver of state law or if a lawsuit gets filed.

On April 7, AIMS asked state education chief Hanna Skandera to waive the state law that appears to prohibit a charter school from opening an additional facility in another school district. AIMS operates on the UNM South Campus and hopes to expand to UNM West in the City Center.

“If the Department of Education comes back and says ‘no,’ that settles … the issue of us being able to expand a second campus into Rio Rancho,” state Sen. Daniel Ivey-Soto, legal counsel for AIMS, told the UNM Board of Regents at its May 9 meeting.

At a different meeting earlier that morning, Carolyn Shearman, chair of the Public Education Commission, which oversees AIMS and other state-authorized charter schools, announced some procedures the PEC expects the school to follow before it can hold classes in Rio Rancho.

“When a school is considering a move from its current location or the addition of another facility in the same school district, it must take two steps,” she wrote in an email.

Sandoval-Snider told her board the PEC has singled out AIMS with a “brand new, special rule.” She has said the PEC in February 2013 approved the AIMS expansion plan in a charter amendment, which listed UNM West as a possible location.

“We have not only a rule that wasn’t in place when the amendment was made, we have a rule that is not, to my knowledge, written down in a place now, and we have no other charter school, and charter schools move all the time, that have had this kind of [requirement],” she said.

Sandoval-Snider has faced opposition from Rio Rancho Public Schools and members of the UNM West Advisory Council, who say AIMS should follow the law.

“The Legislature, when it enacted the Charter School Act, was clear in its intention that expansion of charter schools should not be permitted across district lines,” RRPS said in a position statement distributed to the regents before their meeting.

Kim Johnson, vice chair of the council, told the regents at their recent meeting that he and other council members were concerned about the legal issues.

“We believe that potentially this is going to the courts, and UNM may be drawn into this, and we think that is a bad thing,” he said.

Don Schlichte of the school board and James Jimenez of the advisory council also spoke against the plan for AIMS classes at UNM West but they did not mention legal action. Catherine Cullen of the school board attended the meeting but did not speak during the public comment period.

Sandoval-Snider offered an interpretation of those words and actions: “The advisory council and two members of the school board came to open forum at the regents meeting and threatened to sue the regents,” she told the AIMS board.

Johnson clarified his remarks in an email Thursday. He said he feared RRPS could take the matter to court if proper procedures were not followed. He said neither he nor the council intends to sue.

“I certainly never, ever threatened to sue AIMS,” he wrote.

The agenda for the RRPS board meeting Monday indicates the board went into executive session to discuss pending and/or threatened litigation. When asked if that involved AIMS, RRPS spokeswomen Kim Vesley ultimately referred the Observer to the district’s legal counsel.

“When you go to court … that’s kids’ textbooks. And anybody who says [a lawsuit] is an appropriate use of student (funds from the state), well, they better not be crying to me that there’s an uneven playing field,” Sandoval-Snider said in an interview last month.

Posted in Education , Local on Sunday, May 18, 2014 12:00 am.

Welcome to the discussion.

It's easy to do and it's free!

LvRR posted at 12:29 pm on Wed, May 21, 2014.

Joe Rattera posted at 8:24 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Winston, AIMS does not charge tuition. Your and my tax dollars pay for the bulk of the cost at AIMS and RRPS. You're going to have to provide a citation for your claim that they are funded equally per student capita.

M B Winston IV posted at 4:08 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

A wise person once said, "Figures lie and liars figure." Be aware when someone uses numbers to justify a point of view.

When looking at funding for students at AIMS as compared to RRPS, you need to understand where you draw the line.  AIMS student funding comes from tuition and a few grants.  The federal government supports RRPS at a level that more than balances the difference in per student funding.

Feel free to give whatever free cash you may have to RRPS if you feel that strongly about ensuring RRPS students get the funding you feel they need.  Be aware though that nationally, there is very little correlation in funds per student and academic achievement.  On the other hand, AIMS has a plan to produce students very proficient in math and science--careers at the top for earnings according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Joe Rattera posted at 7:43 pm on Sun, May 18, 2014.

AIMS receives 25% more funding per student than RRPS. I do not want my RRPS students budgeted for one cent less than AIMS students. If there is a lawsuit, it will be justified. The way I see it, AIMS is unable to follow directions on establishing charter schools. It deserves this lawsuit. It is the not so articulate Director Kathy Sandoval-Snider and her AIMS minions who will be the ones wasting taxpayer dollars.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
