
NEW: Analyst: Military is trying to convince protesters to go home, "dial down the tensions"

Professor: The situation is "very volatile"

Bangkok (CNN) -- The Thai army declared martial law throughout the country Tuesday in a surprise move that an aide to the embattled Prime Minister said the government didn't know about beforehand.

"They took this action unilaterally. The government is having a special meeting regarding this. We have to watch and see if the army chief honors his declaration of impartiality," the aide said, describing the situation as "half a coup d'etat."

Lt. Gen. Nipat Thonglek told CNN the move was not a coup.

"The Army aims to maintain peace, order and public safety for all groups and all parties," a ticker running on the army's television channel said. "People are urged not to panic, and can carry on their business as usual. Declaring martial law is not a coup d'etat."

Martial law went into effect at 3 a.m. on Tuesday, the ticker said.

All Thai TV stations are being guarded by the military, Thai public television announced, showing pictures of soldiers and armored vehicles taking positions outside broadcast facilities in the country's capital.

Thai anti-coup activist Sombat Boonngamanong, center, gestures as he arrives escorted by police and soldiers at a military court in Bangkok on Thursday, June 12. The prominent anti-coup figure faces up to 14 years in prison if convicted of incitement, computer crimes and ignoring a summons by the junta, police said. The Thai military carried out a coup May 22 after months of unrest had destabilized the country's elected government and caused outbursts of deadly violence in Bangkok.

Officials clean a canal on Friday, June 6, outside Thai Government House in Bangkok in an area anti-government protesters occupied for months. Human-rights activists and foreign governments criticized the military's intervention, but life in Thailand has resumed to something approaching normal while the political situation remains in flux.

Thai soldiers entertain people with songs at Victory Monument in Bangkok on Thursday, June 5. The junta is waging a propaganda campaign to encourage "national happiness" following the coup that severely restricted civil liberties.

Passengers on a bus watch soldiers entertain the crowds at Bangkok's Victory Monument on June 5.

Police secure an area inside the Australian Embassy in Bangkok on Wednesday, June 4.

A protester adopts the three-fingered salute from "The Hunger Games" during an anti-coup demonstration in front of the Australian Embassy in Bangkok on June 4.

Soldiers pull barbed wire from a canal near the Thai Government House during a cleanup operation June 4 in Bangkok.

Thai police officers leave the Victory Monument after they finish guarding it Tuesday, June 3, in Bangkok.

Protesters flash the three-finger salute while shouting during an anti-coup demonstration in Bangkok on Sunday, June 1.

A protester holds up three fingers during an anti-coup demonstration at a Bangkok shopping mall on June 1.

Thai soldiers are deployed at a busy intersection in Bangkok on June 1.

Onlookers at a Bangkok shopping mall watch as protesters shout "Freedom!" and "Democracy!" on June 1.

Thai soldiers guard a bus stop area to prevent an anti-coup demonstration in Bangkok on Thursday, May 29.

A man participates in an anti-coup demonstration in Bangkok on Wednesday, May 28.

A protester throws a garbage can at a line of Thai soldiers during an anti-coup demonstration in Bangkok on May 28.

Military police stand guard during an anti-coup demonstration at the Victory Monument in Bangkok on Tuesday, May 27.

Anti-coup demonstrators gather at the Victory Monument to protest the military coup as Thai soldiers stand guard in Bangkok on May 27.

Thai soldiers arrest ousted Education Minister Chaturon Chaisang at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand in Bangkok on May 27.

Thai soldiers receive roses from coup supporters at a military base in Bangkok on May 27. Since taking power, military authorities have summoned -- and in some cases detained -- scores of political officials and other prominent figures.

Two protesters stand in front riot police during an anti-coup demonstration in Bangkok on Monday, May 26. Demonstrators have taken to the streets in opposition to the coup, while some Thais express hope the military will bring an end to the political crisis.

An anti-coup protester faces riot police during a May 26 rally in Bangkok.

Thai police take a woman away from an anti-coup protest in Bangkok on May 26.

A protester confronts soldiers in riot gear during an anti-coup rally Sunday, May 25, in Bangkok.

Thai soldiers are surrounded by anti-coup protesters on May 25 during a demonstration in Bangkok.

A Thai soldier, citing safety reasons, apologies to pedestrians after he closes the fence to an overpass during an anti-coup demonstration in Bangkok on May 25.

Thai soldiers stand behind their riot shields as protesters threaten them May 25 in Bangkok.

Protesters chant slogans during an anti-coup rally May 25 in Bangkok.

An anti-coup protester is detained by Thai police officers during a protest in Bangkok on Saturday, May 24.

Thai soldiers link arms as they monitor a protest outside a Bangkok shopping complex on May 24.

Thai soldiers patrol near a rally site for pro-government demonstrators on the outskirts of Bangkok on Thursday, May 22.

Thai soldiers stand guard at a checkpoint outside of Bangkok on May 22.

A Buddhist monk walks past a Thai soldier near a pro-government demonstration on the outskirts of Bangkok on Wednesday, May 21.

Thai soldiers guard the Thai police headquarters in Bangkok on Tuesday, May 20.

Thai soldiers stand guard outside the Government Public Relations Department in Bangkok on May 20.

Anti-government protesters listen to their national anthem during a gathering in Bangkok on May 20.

Office workers walk past armed soldiers outside the Shinawatra Tower Two office building in Bangkok on May 20.

A soldier grips his gun outside the Government Public Relations Department building on May 20.

Soldiers hold their positions outside the Government Public Relations Department building on May 20.

A soldier stands guard outside the Centre for the Administration of Peace and Order in Bangkok on May 20.

Military police officers walk outside the National Broadcasting Services of Thailand offices in Bangkok on May 20. King Bhumibol Adulyadej is pictured on the building.

Thai soldiers walk into the National Broadcasting Services of Thailand building on May 20. All Thai TV stations were being guarded by the military.

Soldiers sit in the lobby of the National Broadcasting Services of Thailand building on May 20.

Soldiers secure the Ratchaprasong intersection in Bangkok on May 20.

A group of soldiers gathers outside the Centre for the Administration of Peace and Order on May 20.

Military police officers walk in front of the Thai TV 3 offices in Bangkok on May 20. In a statement read on Thai television, the military declared that all of the country's radio and television stations must suspend their normal programs "when it is needed."

A soldier stands outside the Government Public Relations Department building on May 20.

An anti-government protester waves a Thai national flag during a march through streets of Bangkok on Monday, May 19. Martial law went into effect at 3 a.m. the next morning.

In a statement read on Thai television, the military declared that all of the country's radio and television stations must suspend their normal programs "when it is needed."

Political tensions have been running high in Thailand. Supporters and opponents of the country's government have staged mass protests in recent days, and earlier this month a top court removed caretaker Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra from office, along with nine cabinet ministers.

It's too soon to tell whether the military's declaration of martial law will ease tensions or heighten them, analysts said.

Thitinan Pongsudhirak, a political science professor, described the situation as "very volatile."

"This is a precarious time now for the army," he said. "They have to be even-handed."

If the military appears to be favoring one side, he said, violence could escalate rather than cool down.

"If it's seen as favoring one side or the other side, then we could see more violence and turmoil against the military," he said.

Paul Quaglia, director at Bangkok-based risk assessment firm PQA Associates, described the situation as "martial law light."

"Right now the military has deployed troops around key intersections of the city. Traffic is a real mess here at the moment, but there's no violence," he said. "I think what the military is trying to do with this...is to convince protesters to go home. They're trying to dial down the tensions here as well as preempt several large rallies and strikes that were scheduled for later this week."

But what happens next will depend on how protesters react, he said.

"The military is taking a step by step, gentle approach to see if they can get things to improve," Quaglia said. "If not, they'll of course have to ratchet up their actions."

Nipat said the precise restrictions of martial law were being worked out.

The government's "red shirt" support base, many of whom hail from the country's rural north and northeast, view Yingluck's ouster as a "judicial coup" and have been protesting what they consider an unfair bias by many of the country's institutions against their side.

Anti-government protesters are seeking a new government -- but not through elections, which the opposition Democrat Party has boycotted, arguing the alleged corruption of their political rivals makes widespread reform necessary before any meaningful vote can be held.

Increased government efforts to improve security are a positive step, Quaglia said.

"That being said, martial law will not solve the political problems that continue to haunt this country," he said. "The differences are stark, and I don't think the military can step in and by force fix the political issues."

CNN's Kocha Olarn reported from Bangkok. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet reported from Atlanta. CNN's John Vause, Saima Mohsin and Tim Hume contributed to this report.

The military leader who took control of Thailand in a coup in May has been named the country's prime minister.

Thailand's new military ruler has added a personal touch to the post-coup charm offensive, writing the lyrics to a pro-junta ballad.

Pageant winner Weluree "Fai" Ditsayabut has relinquished her title under a barrage of criticism over her comments about red shirts.

They may not be led by Katniss Everdeen, but Thai protesters have adopted one of her symbols. Jessica King reports.

The general who seized control of Thailand in a coup has announced he has received royal endorsement to run the country.

Former Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is no longer in military custody, according to a highly placed source in the junta.

Photos of the demonstrations against military rule in Thailand.

U.S. suspends $3.5 million in aid to Thailand after the military took charge of the country.

Thailand's military declared Thursday that it has taken control of the country in a coup. What does it mean? Here's our explainer.

If you're planning on visiting the country, you should be aware of what's going on.

The U.S. Ambassador to Thailand, Kristie Kenney, reacts to the Thai military coup.

The Thai military has censored TV and radio -- and social media could be next.

Many people are going about their lives as normal -- some are even responding playfully.

Thailand's military chief announces coup in a televised national address.
