
For the first time, the University of Maryland will send a delegation of four students and two faculty members to the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Warsaw, Poland in November.

The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) was negotiated and signed in 1992, and went into effect in 1994. Each year since 1995, the convention’s 195 parties meet to analyze scientific progress in dealing with the impacts of climate change.

The students will attend the 19th Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC as part of the university course PUAF798K: Readings in Public Policy; Climate Science and Policy. The course is taught by Nathan Hultman, director of the School of Public Policy’s environmental policy program, and Hultman and government and politics assistant professor Jennifer Hadden will be the faculty members of the delegation.

As part of the course, the students – Elena Bertocci, Qing Tan and Cara Wychgram, graduate students in public policy, and Sha Yu, a public policy PhD candidate – will write briefs from the conference and discuss issues during a joint session with the rest of the class, as well as potentially meet with policy experts at the conference.

Tan, who earned an undergraduate degree in environmental science from Nanjing University in China, said witnessing the negotiation process during the conference will be a valuable experience for policy students.

“I'm extremely curious about how people standing for various stakeholders and interests employ their strategies in the climate ‘bargaining,’” she said.

Sha said the opportunity to hear views on climate change from policy makers and scholars from around the globe will be a unique one for the student delegates.

"I’m interested in learning perspectives of different countries on climate change and observing real-world policy making process," said Sha, who works on energy efficiency and clean energy policies in developing countries at the Joint Global Change Research Institute. "International treaty and collaboration is essential to addressing climate change."

A belief that environmental problems are not merely scientific or technical, but also rooted in societal issues, led Tan to become interested in studying public policy and potentially working for a non-profit or intergovernmental environmental organization in the U.S. or China.

Similarly, undergraduate studies in biology and a stint in the Peace Corps led Bertocci to study policy, in the hope that it would allow her to incorporate environmental needs into solutions to other issues.

Wychgram, who has a bachelor’s degree in economics, said her decision to study environmental policy stemmed from an interest in activism and animal rights, as well as her experiences at the university.

By giving students the chance to observe international negotiations on climate change, the conference will be a unique addition to PUAF798K, Sha said.

"We will get an opportunity to closely observe how international policy can be coordinated under uncertainty, and how concerns of geographic and distributional equity inform and shape the debate," she said.

Although the students’ schedules are not yet set, Wychgram said she hopes to attend events on topics like agriculture, health and renewable energy, with the goal of establishing a career in one of these sectors of environmental policy.

“I really enjoy writing and working with data, so I hope to use my economics/statistics background to find a career in policy research and analysis,” she said.

Bertocci hopes to work at the intersection of the environment and economics in the future, with an eye toward fisheries policy as a possible area of expertise.
