
The Carnegie–Tsinghua Center for Global Policy, through its partnership with Tsinghua University, brings together top experts from China and the international community to engage in collaborative dialogue and research on common global challenges.

Germany may revise its passive abdication in favor of more Cold War activism vis-à-vis Russia. This, however, is rejected by the business community, the social democratic members of the ruling coalition in Berlin, a number of prominent political figures such as former chancellors Schmidt and Schroeder, and a group of "Russland-Versteher," ranking politicians and experts who claim to understand Russia and plead for an understanding with it. Despite the media efforts to the contrary, a surprising share of German public opinion support a moderate course toward Russia, and not only because of the economic gains they do not want to give up. 100 years after the start of World War I and nearly 70 years after the end of World War II, Angela Merkel may not agree with them, but she listens.

Ukraine is a good place to start working toward that new role. For starters, Germany needs to stop thinking of Ukraine as a U.S.-Russian issue, and assume responsibility there on behalf of the EU as a whole, canvassing its partners' support for such an engagement. Merkel should let Barack Obama continue with his pivot to Asia, and free up John Kerry's time to deal with the Middle East, while engaging herself to help Ukrainians rebuild their country on an equitable and sustainable foundation. Ambassador Ischinger's appointment as the OSCE facilitator of the intra-Ukrainian dialogue is a useful step, as are Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier's revived contacts with Sergei Lavrov. The chancellor, whose differences in worldview with the Russian president are well-known, needs to patiently pursue dialogue with Vladimir Putin on issues ranging from Ukraine and Moldova to energy and arms. Obama has no plans for a one-on-one with Putin in Normandy next month. Merkel has no excuse to miss the opportunity.

Prudence dictates that Russia should not invade Ukraine. However, if Putin decides differently, the Ukraine crisis will immediately become a Russia crisis, and then a European one.

You are leaving the Carnegie–Tsinghua Center for Global Policy's website and entering another Carnegie global site.
