
Delia Garcia-Bratcher, 30, grabbed the fifth-grader inside Olivet Elementary Charter School after her son pointed him out as the student who was teasing his sister. On Monday a sheriff's official said the mother may have grabbed the wrong child.

KNTV A 30-year-old woman was arrested after she grabbed a fifth-grader by the throat for allegedly bullying her daughter.

A California woman arrested for grabbing an 11-year-old boy by the throat for allegedly bullying her daughter may have grabbed the wrong child, a sheriff's official said Monday.

Delia Garcia-Bratcher, 30, grabbed the fifth-grader inside Olivet Elementary Charter School in Santa Rosa on Friday, after her son — who also attends the school — pointed him out as the student who was teasing his sister, KNTV reported.

Investigators, however, have not found evidence linking the boy to the bullying allegations, Sonoma County sheriff's Lt. Steve Brown said. He said they are looking into whether another child may have harassed the girl.

"We are unable to determine if any bullying ever occurred," Brown said. "We don't know if this kid bullied this girl at all. It looks like he did not. We can't find anybody to say that he did."

The girl's mother was arrested Saturday after police said she marched into the school without checking in at the front office during a lunch break and confronted the student in front of several classmates.

“It’s terrible when this kind of thing happens,” Jennie Snyder, the superintendent of the Piner-Olivet Union School District, told the news station.

Cops cuffed the mother after police spotted red marks on the victim’s neck that were consistent with being grabbed.

Garcia-Bratcher was booked on a felony count of inflicting injury on a child on Saturday and released on $30,000 bail.

"The mother said she didn't do it," Brown said. "Even if some bullying did occur, that doesn't change the crime that the mother allegedly committed."

School officials said they were not aware of the bullying allegations, but were investigating the claims.

KNTV The woman allegedly grabbed the 11-year-old boy after she stormed into the school during a lunch break on Friday.

“I don’t know how you could put your hands on another child,” said Amanda Navarro, whose child also attends the school.

Garcia-Bratcher was scheduled to appear in court on Thursday.

A Sonoma County district attorney's spokeswoman said Monday that her office was still awaiting the sheriff's report before deciding on filing any criminal charges.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
