
Nearly two months after the College of Charleston board of trustees chose Lt. Gov. Glenn McConnell as its next president, contract negotiations are now complete.

McConnell will take over the position currently held by George Benson on July 1. His contract ends on June 30, 2019.

The institution will pay McConnell an annual salary of $188,000, and the College of Charleston Foundation will provide a supplemental annual salary of $112,000, according to the contract (. pdf ). The $300,000 total offer is nearly $80,000 less than Benson’s current salary.

As president, McConnell will be appointed, as a professional courtesy, to the college’s faculty as a member of the Department of Accounting and Legal Studies.

McConnell, who is a 1969 graduate of CofC, said the college is in his DNA.

Leading the development and execution of the institution’s long-term strategy;

Being ultimately responsible for the institution’s day-to-day management decisions and for implementing the institution’s long- and short-term plans;

Ensuring that the institution is appropriately organized and staffed, and hiring and terminating personnel as necessary to enable the institution to achieve the approved strategy;

Serving as a direct liaison between the institution’s board and the institution’s administration;

Communicating on behalf of the institution to students, faculty, government authorities, other stakeholders and the public;

Ensuring that the institution’s expenditures are within the authorized annual budget;

Ensuring that effective internal controls and management information systems are in place;

Ensuring that the institution maintains high standards of organizational citizenship and social responsibility wherever it does business;

Ensuring that the board is properly informed and that sufficient information is provided to the board to enable the directors to form appropriate judgments.

Prior to June 31, McConnell and Padgett will develop appropriate annual goals for the year. Each year during the contract, the two will review and discuss McConnell’s performance.

If McConnell does not meet his goals, the board may provide him with written notice and allow six months for McConnell to “cure such deficiencies,” according to the contract. After the six-month period, the board may reduce McConnell’s salary or terminate him if the goals are still not met.

With a majority vote, the board may also immediately terminate the contract agreement at any time for cause and without cause on a minimum of six months’ written notice.

Reach staff writer Ashley Barker at 843-849-3144 or @AshleyNBarker on Twitter.
