
The Secretary of State told students that their citizenship is not only a privilege, but a profound responsibility to make change.

Secretary of State John Kerry urged Boston College’s 2014 graduating class to go forth into the world to do good deeds during a commencement speech at his alma mater on Monday morning.

Quoting St. Ignatius, Kerry said it’s the duty of graduates to take what they have learned during their time at the Jesuit school and spread it throughout the world as best they can. “Set the world aflame,” Kerry said, in a speech that touched on topics such as climate change and the devastation of war in underdeveloped countries across the world.

Keeping things light at the beginning of his address, before diving into politics and life advice, Kerry referenced conflicts not between warring countries—situations he deals with on a daily basis as an appointed government official—but rather disputes that occur in pop culture. “I track several rivalries around the world,” Kerry said. “Alec Baldwin versus the NYPD, Beyoncé’s sister versus Jay Z,” and of course, the Red Sox versus the Yankees.

The Secretary also took a potshot at Harvard University, saying despite the longtime tensions between Yale and Boston College, the two schools share a mutual disdain for the Cambridge Ivy League institution. “Although to be fair, hundreds of schools don’t like Harvard very much,” Kerry joked.

Shifting his speech toward more serious matters, Kerry said he felt like he was “home” returning to Massachusetts and to Boston College, where he graduated from the Law School nearly 40 years ago.

In coming home, he recognized the school’s welcoming spirit, and boasted that that distinguishable characteristic has been one that the college has upheld since “its first days.” Kerry said the school has continued to adhere to the lifestyle and motto set forth by the Jesuits, and it was the compassion, listening, and understanding at BC that taught him how to think critically, and reinforced his sense of direction.

Kerry said like BC, the United States lives up to similar ideals. “What makes America different from other nations is not a common religion, bloodline, ideology, or heritage. What makes America different is we are united by an uncommon idea: we’re all created equal, all endowed with unalienable rights,” he said.

Be respectful of our online community and contribute to an engaging conversation. We reserve the right to remove impersonators or personal attacks, threats, profanity, or flat-out offensive comments. By posting here, you are permitting Boston magazine and Metro Corp. to edit and republish your comment in all media.

Set the world on fire? Like your trying to do Mr Kerry by supporting your Al-Quida friends in Syria and supporting neo nazis in the Ukrane. Be all you can be I guess.

I don’t care if the climate change zealots say they disagree.  But when their approach is to label, belittle and shut down all who disagree – that’s a big problem and is normally a precursor to humans making fools of themselves.
