
YORK — The York County School Board cut nearly $2.1 million from its proposed $128.6 million budget Monday night after the Board of Supervisors failed to fully fund it.

But the board was able to find the money to give a 3 percent increase to all its employees.

The board first proposed the fiscal year 2015 spending plan in March requesting $53 million — about $3 million more than the current year — from the county. But earlier this month, the supervisors approved its fiscal year 2015 budget, giving the schools an increased allocation totaling $50.9 million, not willing to raise taxes to provide more to the schools.

So during a work session held before the school board's monthly meeting Monday, the board found $2,091,675 to cut from its budget to make up the difference.

One item on the chopping block was a $2.9 million plan to bump up teacher pay.

The original plan proposed in the budget included a 3.61 percent raise for educators and a 4 percent increase for other staff.

Instead the board opted for a cheaper plan that raised pay on average 3 percent across the board, saving $522,927.

"We've reached a point where we're not pleased," said board Chairman Mark Medford, "but where we can move forward?"

But board member Cindy Kirschke disagreed with the plan. She thought the school board should stand by its original plan to restore a step increase — an incremental increase in salary based on longevity — which has been frozen for five years.

There are 177 teachers on step 0, Kirschke said during the board's regular meeting. That is 1 in 5 York County School Division's teachers, including teachers with six years experience with the division, as well as those just out of college.

"I don't know if giving those teachers one step is enough," Kirschke said. "I don't know if it's enough to keep a teacher with six years experience who is being treated the same as a teacher in their first year of teaching."

The board also cut $300,000 earmarked for textbooks, which are replaced on a 13-year cycle. Another $950,000 was taken from technology.

These changes were not finalized Monday, and will come back before the board for a vote in June when it hopes the state's funding will be set possibly necessitating more changes.
