
You may have have seen a few videos posted on Facebook of people in Riggins jumping into rivers, creeks, ponds, swimming pools, and even kiddie pools and water troughs recently for the fundraiser, Jump in for Justin﻿. It was created by Tracey Bird after she had seen friends in Missouri participate in a cold water challenge and she thought it could be adjusted to help the Mann family.

"We are raising money for Justin Mann who was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukemia October of 2013. The cost of living expenses while completing a bone marrow transplant in Seattle has caught up with the Mann family and Riggins being the supportive community it is, jumped in," Bird says.

Bird jumped on May 9th and called out a few of her buddies and the fundraising effort has grown from there. And it has gotten quite creative.

"Folks who have been called out can donate the $5 and jump in for Justin calling out 3 more people to accept the challenge. If they opt out they donate $20 and call out 4 people," Bird says. She says they are encouraging everyone to upload their video on the Facebook page. "It is helpful if the post is made public so we can share on the page."

More than $2,000 has been donated so far, and Bird says the buzz around town has become all about Jump in for Justin. "No one watches network TV at night. Families are sitting around the computer and enjoying the creative and touching ways people are Jumping in for Justin."

Bird says the support has come from not only the town of Riggins, but from all over the world. "The Jet Boat River Racing community from Canada has GENEROUSLY started a challenge of their own, the $100 challenge. Families from Denmark, Maine, Michigan, Colorado, Oregon, Utah, Montana, all over Idaho, and who knows where else have all graciously donated," she says.

Bird has been asked if there is an end in sight for the fundraiser. "My first thought was the end of June figuring the water wouldn't be cold anymore but this has blown up into something much bigger than I ever dreamed. We are all having so much fun I can honestly say that I see no real end at this time. I would love to see Jump in for Justin be the jumpstart to a foundation created to help those in our community that are in need for any reason. We all have the power to come together and make a difference."

Your privacy is important to us. See our Privacy Policy .

Stay up to date with your community!

Get news & deals from LC Valley for free!
