
The city was expecting one issue, but two others came as a surprise.

The Legislative Joint Auditing Committee has released its findings for the City of Stuttgart.

The city was expecting one issue, but two others came as a surprise.

Stuttgart Mayor Marianne Maynard said, "Everything was fine except two things," when it came to the audit.

The Stuttgart City Council now has the facts surrounding the 2013 resignation of a long-time city employee.

Included in the audit are the findings following an investigation of former Stuttgart Public Works Director Andrew Robinson.

Not much was released in May 2013 when Maynard said Robinson had turned in his resignation.

According to the audit, a Stuttgart Police Department investigation confirmed that city-purchased fuel and auto parts totaling $19,437 were misappropriated from Jan. 1, 2007 through Dec. 31, 2011. During an interview with police department personnel on March 6, 2013, Robinson acknowledged misappropriating these items for personal use and agreed to reimburse the city.

Robinson resigned on May 10, 2013.

After reviewing the police department documentation, DLA staff determined the actual loss during the period was $20,734. As of the report date, Robinson had reimbursed $19,437, leaving $1,297 due to the city.

"We are waiting on a letter from (Arkansas County Prosecuting Attorney) Robert Dittrich," Maynard said of the remaining balance.

The amount of fuel Robinson misappropriated from Jan. 1, 2012 through May 10, 2013 could not be determined due to the city's purchase of a new fuel system that allowed Robinson to bypass the card reader. Also, the amount of fuel Robinson obtained for a city-owned vehicle appeared excessive, however, the amount of fuel misappropriated, if any, could not be determined.

Two other issues arose in the audit. First, bids were not solicited for a dump trailer costing $27,500. Maynard said the purchase was through the public works department. All purchases over $20,000 must be bid, according to Arkansas law. The oversight was not intentional Maynard said. The department was told it was under $20,000, but with taxes and other charges, the total purchase set them over the $20,000 threshold.

"So it should have been bid out. I didn't know anything about it," Maynard said. "When they went to Memphis to pick it up they thought it would be less."

The department has since been told and reminded that anything over $20,000 will be bid out.

"They know," she said.

The third item was renovations made at Stuttgart's fire stations. The total spent on renovations came in at $32,352.

The department broke down the renovations as three different jobs.

"We had it as three different jobs, and they felt it should have been one," Maynard said of the audit.

The council will acknowledge receiving the audit at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday at Stuttgart City Hall, located at 304 S. Maple, during its regularly scheduled meeting.

• The council will discuss a proposed resolution authorizing the city to enter into a grant agreement with the Federal Aviation Administration.

All meetings are open to the public.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
