
The new Ontario College of Trades is the target of a pitched battle within the construction industry.

Created by legislation in 2009, the college went into full operation just over a year ago. From the beginning, it has been attacked as an unneeded bureaucracy.

But the battle ramped up when the college launched a review that could turn carpentry into a compulsory trade, requiring apprenticeship and certification.

That spurred a major defection when the Labourers’ International Union of North America, an early supporter of the college, joined a coalition determined to abolish the regulator.

Once a staunch supporter of the college, MacKinnon is now a harsh critic. The labourers’ union is Canada’s largest construction union with 60,000 members in Ontario, including many who do carpentry.

The college seems to be about grabbing money and power, especially in its move to make carpentry a compulsory trade, said MacKinnon, who’s based in London.

The college was sold as an organization that would promote trades and shift power away from bureaucrats to members of the industry but has “morphed into this big fiefdom — a money-making machine,” he said.

The carpenters’ union is pushing for compulsory status because it gives their members, who are certified, an advantage in getting work and gives the union more leverage to organize and expand, MacKinnon said.

The carpenters’ union, with about 24,000 members, is behind the push to make carpentry a compulsory skilled trade.

The union’s members get a certificate of qualification after completing a 7,200-hour apprenticeship.

Yorke said it’s not acceptable that anyone in Ontario can call themselves a carpenter.

Carpenters are just as important as electricians and plumbers who require certification, he said.

The union is open to “grandfathering” and other flexible rules to make it easier for carpenters to adjust to compulsory status, Yorke said.

Co-owner of a London-based renovation business, Melnick said he’s not opposed to the Ontario College of Trades or even the review of carpenters as a compulsory trade. But he said carpenters now on the job need assurance they won’t be forced to go through a formal apprenticeship to get licensed.

Most big construction projects use union labour, and there are strict rules on the work that can be done by each trade, Melnick said. But homebuilders and renovators use much smaller crews that do a variety of work, he said.

The college is the target of an “orchestrated misinformation campaign,” said Haigh, the college’s communications director said.

The review that could turn carpentry into a compulsory skilled trade requiring licensing and apprenticeship is “open and rigorous,” and the long process of review is only beginning, she said.

“Grandfathering” — granting licenses to existing carpenters based on their experience — is an option written into the legislation that created the college and will be considered to avoid any disruption in the industry, Haigh said.

The college protects consumers by ensuring tradespeople are qualified, she said.

Much of the criticism of the college is driven by business interest trying to keep labour costs down, Haigh said.

Regulates and promotes skilled trades.

Supervises training and certification for 22 trades where licensing and college membership is compulsory, for example electricians and plumbers.

Polices workplaces for unlicensed operators.

Also oversees 157 other trades where licensing and membership isn’t required.

Now reviewing general carpentry.

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
