
The Irish Independent says the return of the Fianna Fail ‘old guard’ has prompted a voter backlash against party leader Micheal Martin. More than one in three voters say they are less likely to vote for the party if former ministers are brought back.

Meanwhile parents have overwhelmingly backed teachers in their opposition to proposals to have them marking their own pupils’ Junior Cert papers. The new exam system – with more marks for coursework and students to be assessed by their own teachers – is being introduced on a phased basis from next September.

And nurses have threatened to go to war with Minister for Health James Reilly after being asked to back new plans to use lower-paid staff in order to save €80m.

The Herald reveals that a carjacker threatened to cut a taxi driver’s throat in Dublin yesterday. The 36-year-old was hijacked at knife point by a 15-year-old boy in Terenure in the early hours.

The Irish Daily Star says the taxi driver who was subjected to the carjacking ordeal has pleaded with Taoiseach Enda Kenny to make the streets safe. The carjacking is the fourth in just three weeks.

The Irish Examiner says the 227,000 homeowners that didn’t pay the €100 2012 household charge enforcement. Revenue is still receiving up to 4,000 payments of the household charge every day.

The Irish Daily Mail says Health Minister James Reilly has allocated nearly half a million euro in lottery grants to his constituency in the past three years – sometimes against the advice of his senior officials. Meanwhile, Mr Reilly is driving a campaign of controversial cuts which has led to medical cards being taken away from the vulnerable.

The Irish Sun says Labour would be practically wiped out if a General Election were held today – the paper says its poll shows support for the party has slumped to eight per cent.

The Irish Daily Mirror says homelessness is ‘beyond crisis’. Fr Peter McVerry, a homelessness campaigner, has warned of a tsunami of homelessness threatening to swamp Ireland in the coming years.

The Irish Times says Labour faces wipeout in the Euro elections as the paper’s poll shows Fianna Fail has a chance of three seats.

The number of households seeking council houses has risen dramatically across the State, with local authorities reporting an average increase of 42 per cent in waiting lists since last year.
