
Water supplies depending on mountain streams may be affected if streamflow declines due to global warming, according to a paper in Nature Climate Change.

Click to enlarge. Glaciers along the Continental Divide, Alberta, May 2007. Glacier- and snow-fed systems provide the backbone of water supply not only in Western Canada but also in many other regions in the world. Coutesy: Markus Hrachowitz.

Click to enlarge. Headwaters of Tsitika River watershed on Northern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, December 2005. Temperature increases will affect the hydrological system in particular in rain/snow transition zones. Courtesy: Markus Hrachowitz.

Higher streamflow — the water flow in streams, rivers and other watercourses — is associated with snowfall, reports a Letter published online in Nature Climate Change. Increased surface temperatures will cause less precipitation in the form of snow, resulting in reduced streamflow.

The impact of decreased snowfall has previously been assumed not to influence streamflow significantly. Wouter Berghuijs and colleagues investigated this by applying a water-balance framework, a ratio of mean evaporation to mean precipitation, to 420 catchment basins in the United States during the period 1948–2001. The authors report that when there is an increase in the fraction of precipitation falling as snow, there is a higher mean streamflow, although the level of response varies between catchments.

New research has shown for the first time that the amount of water flowing through rivers in snow-affected regions depends significantly on how much of the precipitation falls as snowfall. This means in a warming climate, if less of the precipitation falls as snow, rivers will discharge less water than they currently do.

The study by PhD student Wouter Berghuijs and Dr Ross Woods, Senior Lecturer in Water and Environmental Engineering in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Bristol together with a colleague from Delft University of Technology is published online in Nature Climate Change.

The researchers, using historical data from several hundred river basins located across the United States, investigated the effect of snow on the amount of water that rivers discharge.

How river flow is generated in snowy areas is poorly understood due to the difficulty in getting appropriate measurements. Previous studies have mostly focused on the role of snowfall for the within-year distribution of streamflow - how much water is there in the river during a particular period of the year - and assumed that there was no important effect of snow on the average streamflow. This study is the first to focus on the role of snow for how much water is on average available in rivers.

With data from 420 catchments located throughout the United States the researchers show that snowiness is an important factor for the average river discharge.

Global warming is very likely to reduce the amount of snow significantly in snow-affected catchments, even if temperatures rise only two degrees Celsius. The new research suggests that the amount of water in rivers will be reduced as a result of the decrease in snow.

The authors of the study said: "With more than one-sixth of the Earth's population depending on meltwater for their water supply, and ecosystems that can be sensitive to streamflow alterations, the socio-economic consequences of a reduction in streamflow can be substantial.

"Our finding is particularly relevant to regions where societally important functions, such ecosystem stability, hydropower, irrigation, and industrial or domestic water supply are derived from snowmelt."

Given this importance of streamflow for society, the researchers propose that further studies are required to respond to the consequences of a temperature-induced precipitation shift from snow to rain.

In a warming climate, precipitation is less likely to occur as snowfall. A  shift from a snow- towards a rain-dominated regime is currently assumed  not to influence the mean streamflow significantly. Contradicting the  current paradigm, we argue that mean streamflow is likely to reduce for  catchments that experience significant reductions in the fraction of  precipitation falling as snow. With more than one-sixth of the Earth’s  population depending on meltwater for their water supply and ecosystems  that can be sensitive to streamflow alterations, the socio-economic  consequences of a reduction in streamflow can be substantial. By  applying the Budyko water balance framework to catchments located  throughout the contiguous United States we demonstrate that a higher  fraction of precipitation falling as snow is associated with higher mean  streamflow, compared to catchments with marginal or no snowfall.  Furthermore, we show that the fraction of each year’s precipitation  falling as snowfall has a significant influence on the annual streamflow  within individual catchments. This study is limited to introducing  these observations; process-based understanding at the catchment scale  is not yet provided. Given the importance of streamflow for society,  further studies are required to respond to the consequences of a  temperature-induced precipitation shift from snow to rain.

A precipitation shift from snow towards rain leads to a decrease in streamflow by W. R. Berghuijs, R. A. Woods & M. Hrachowitz published in Nature Climate Change (2014). doi:10.1038/nclimate2246.

Read the abstract and get the paper here .

Nature press release.

University of Bristol press release issued via the EurekaAlert service here .

Newspapers, magazines, websites and other media wishing to reproduce content please use the Contact Us page.

reportingclimatescience.com is published monthly.
