
The board’s preliminary findings highlight serious concerns with the way district personnel handled complaints in multiple investigations but also express worries that the district’s regulations for handling such situations might not be adequate.

As the board released its preliminary findings May 12, it notified superintendent Pete Lewis of its intent to remove him from his position at the district for “a total failure of leadership” leading up to the arrest of Hutchison tutor Claude Fowlkes III.

District policies, which essentially express broad stances on important topics, are vetted and approved by the school board, while administrative regulations, which typically go into greater detail regarding the implementation of board policies, are vetted and approved by the superintendent.

Depending on the nature of past complaints filed against its employees, the district could be liable for failing to heed warning signs, according to Terri Miller, president of S.E.S.A.M.E., Stop Educator Sexual Abuse Misconduct and Exploitation. S.E.S.A.M.E. is a national organization that advocates for stronger laws to prevent abuse of students.

Miller isn’t familiar with the specific case in Fairbanks, but she audibly sighed when told Fowlkes was the subject of several complaints and investigations between 2008 and 2012 before his arrest in 2014.

Teachers and administrators in Alaska are subject to mandatory reporting laws — meaning they are required by law to report any suspicion of child abuse as soon as feasibly possible. If they don’t, they can be convicted of a class B misdemeanor.

Educators are required to report suspicions to the state Office of Children’s Services within 24 hours.

Miller said different districts maintain different procedures to handle such suspicions. Some districts, for example, direct teachers to bring their concerns to a building administrator first, who can follow up and report to law enforcement.

John Lovering, the regional supervisor for OCS in Anchorage, said that an educator who suspects abuse is still required to ensure a report gets to OCS, even if they passed the information on to an administrator. If the administrator fails to file a report to OCS, the educator who originally suspected the abuse is liable for the failure.

Despite the strict reporting requirements in Alaska, Lovering said he did not know of any method — other than waiting to see if a teacher is charged with a misdemeanor — for the public to find out if past concerns were passed off to OCS in a given situation.

A FNSB school board statement released May 12 said the board was concerned the district lacked “established, effective, vetted” protocols regarding sexual abuse, inappropriate employee-student boundary issues and “grooming” behavior. Grooming entails gaining trust and befriending a child in an inappropriate context.

State law requires all teachers and administrators to undergo training on identifying and reporting signs of abuse within six months of hire and intermittently thereafter, and the Alaska Department of Education and Early Development provides several courses that fulfill those requirements.

Teachers must receive child abuse training every five years but the frequency of sexual assault training is left up to individual school districts. FNSB School District requires teachers to undergo mandatory reporter training once every five years. Some other districts, such as Mat-Su Borough schools, require teachers to undergo similar training annually.

Neither the department’s course descriptions nor the relevant state statutes mention training to identify grooming behavior. The board listed the necessity of ongoing training in identifying grooming behavior as one of its main preliminary findings May 12.

All certificated educators in Alaska, including teachers and administrators, must answer to the codes of conduct laid out by the Alaska Professional Teaching Practices Commission. Districts are required to report breaches of this code, including instances of suspected sexual abuse or inappropriate contact with a student, to the commission.

Non-certificated employees such as tutors are not subject to the commission’s jurisdiction. So districts are not required to report those investigations to the organization.

Though the FNSB school board has yet to determine what may have been missing in past investigations, it has implied disapproval of the district’s method for sharing employee information between schools.

Board members expressed concern that a tutor who had received multiple complaints of inappropriate contact with a student at one school could receive a glowing recommendation of his ability to respect boundaries at another school. The board also expressed concern that the same tutor could then be hired by a third school, whose principal claimed to know nothing of the employee’s record of alleged misconduct.

S.E.S.A.M.E.’s Miller, said sharing information on employee investigations is uncommon nationwide, not only between districts but among schools within the same district. At present, her organization is lobbying Congress to pass legislation that would require the sharing of such information to districts throughout the United States.

Though the board has expressed concern in its initial findings, its inquiry has not reached the point where investigators have gone through and reviewed the policies and regulations established by the district, board President Heidi Haas said.

Contact staff writer Weston Morrow at 459-7520. Follow him on Twitter: @FDNMschools.
