
Share This Story!

Experts told a child fatality review panel Monday that unsafe sleeping conditions are one of the largest preventable risk factors behind dozens of infant deaths each year in Kentucky.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

FRANKFORT, Ky. – Unsafe sleeping conditions are one of the largest preventable risk factors behind dozens of infant deaths each year in Kentucky, experts told a state panel Monday.

The Child Fatality and Near Fatality External Review Panel examined the data as part of a multi-year inquiry into possible improvements to the state’s child-protective services.

Health officials said 71 cases of sudden unexpected infant death were documented in 2012, representing 18.2 percent of all deaths among children younger than a year old.

Co-sleeping with parents, sleeping in areas outside of a crib, use of soft bedding and placing infants on their stomach or side were listed as major risk factors.

“They don’t make up a whole lot of the infant deaths, but there is a lot of prevention that can take place,” said Tracey Jewell, an epidemiologist for the Division of Maternal and Child Health.

Jewell said surveys from 2009 and 2010 revealed that about 12.7 percent of new mothers report always co-sleeping with a child while another 26 percent do it often or sometimes.

Also, more than 28 percent reported placing a baby in a stomach or side sleep position.

Jewell said the numbers leave a lot of room for improvement.

Division director Ruth Shepherd, a panel member, said some of the cases — such as those that involve substance abuse —probably need to come to the group for a review. About 14 percent of cases involved a documented substance abuse issue.

Panel members also suggested that more public awareness of safe sleeping practices could prevent future deaths.

Detective Kevin Calhoon, from Kentucky State Police, compared the idea to child car seat campaigns that have improved safety in vehicles.

“This would be just another type of campaign that has to be aggressively taken on,” he said.

Reporter Mike Wynn can be reached at (502) 875-5136. Follow him on Twitter at @MikeWynn_CJ.
