
Contributed photo.

The 21st Annual Nickelsville Days Festival will begin Saturday morning, May 24 with a hearty breakfast prepared by the Eastern Star and end Sunday afternoon, May 25 with a community church service at Keith Memorial Park and dinner on the grounds.

In between, visitors to the small Southwest Virginia town will enjoy a weekend full of family friendly fun, from craft and food vendors to a magic show to a trash to treasures auction.

A 3K Fun Run will step off at 9 a.m., Saturday at Keith Memorial Park, where the 60th Tennessee Infantry Confederate Regiment will set up camp and hold company drills and cavalry demonstrations from 11 a.m. to noon and again from 3 to 4 p.m.

Regiment members will also participate in the Nickelsville Days Parade, which begins at 1 p.m. at BB&T and ends at Keith Memorial Park. All veterans and active duty military are invited to join the parade, which will also feature the Twin Springs and Gate City High School marching bands, American Legion Posts 265 and 3, and representatives from the Scott County Sherriff's Department and Nickelsville Fire and Rescue Squads, who will serve as escorts for this year's grand marshal, Allen Hicks.

Hicks organizers a weekly bluegrass jam in the basement of his mandolin shop, which recently became become an official Crooked Road Music Trail venue.

Immediately following the parade, there will be a memorial service honoring America's fallen veterans, with a wreath presentation by Gold Star Mom Jeanette Poston, messages from Congressman Morgan Griffith and Delegate Terry Kilgore, and a 21-gun military salute and echoing taps.

Throughout the day Saturday, children can enjoy bungee jumping and train rides, and a scavenger hunt will be held at 11 a.m. at the park. Homemade ice cream demonstrations and free ice cream samples will be available from 2:30 to 8 p.m.

The historic Bush Mill will be open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and guests are invited to stop by to see a number of renovations completed since last year's festival, including a new barrier-free entrance, flume, foundation and newly rebuilt French burr millstone mill. Freshly ground corn meal will be available. A shuttle to the mill and to Allen's Jam will run from Keith Memorial Park.

Marsh Regional Blood Center will be set up at Nickelsville Elementary School from 3 to 7 p.m. for anyone wishing to donate blood. There will be a special MedVac landing, also at 3 p.m., and tours of the helicopter.

Joseph Young will entertain festival goers with a magic show at 5 p.m. at the park.

The Copper Ridge band will take the main stage at 6:30 p.m., followed by local favorite Folk Soul Revival at 8 p.m. Tickets to the concert are $8.50 in advance and are available at Teddy's Restaurant, Pizza Plus in Nickelsville and the Nickelsville Town Hall. Admission is $10 at the gate.

A fireworks display will wrap up the day's festivities at 10 p.m.

On Sunday morning, visitors are invited to take part in a community church service beginning at 10 a.m. at Keith Memorial Park, followed by dinner on the grounds at noon and gospel music at 1 p.m.

For a complete schedule of events or more information, visit www.nickelsvilledays.com .
