
Minnesota Rep. John Kline  and other opponents of the new federal school lunch standards  say forcing children to take foods they don’t want is wasteful and leaving students hungry.

The Star Tribune  says that Kline and other Republicans are pushing to alter the new rules, which require school meals to have more fruits, vegetables and whole grains, versus simple starches and sodium.

Kline, who takes campaign cash from the powerful food lobby, told the Star Tribune that it’s unfair to link contributions from food companies to his stance on the nutrition standards . Golden Valley-based General Mills – which has donated about $75,000 to Kline since 1997 – is among the food companies that have spoken out against portion size restrictions and have urged for delays in implementing the standards in schools, the Star Tribune notes.

Supporters say the program will help students eat healthier and lead to lower obesity levels , but the Washington Times notes that nearly 1.1 million students stopped buying school lunch since the healthy standards were rolled out during the 2012-13 school year. Additional standards will be put into effect for 2014-15 school year, which include an increase in whole-grain foods and lower-sodium meals.

But schools around the country have reported students throwing away whole fruits and new whole-grain offerings that meet the nutrition requirements,  MPR News  notes. Other schools have said it has been costly to implement these standards, the  Associated Press  says.

This has the  School Nutrition Association , along with Kline and other critics, asking Congress and the USDA to relax its standards and allow for school cafeterias to have more flexibility in school lunch menus, according to an  SNA position paper  and the Star Tribune.

The Government Accountability Office audited the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act nutrition standards earlier this year and found that 48 out of 50 states faced challenges complying the with new standards and that 321 districts left the National School Lunch Program altogether.

However, Minnesota is one of the most compliant states for implementing the new rules. The Star Tribune says 93 percent of the state’s schools are meeting the new standards.

But that doesn’t mean schools are happy with them. Wayzata High School is among the schools dropping the national school lunch program next year, which means it won’t get federal or state reimbursements for school lunches, the  Sun Sailor  says.

In April, the Wayzata School Board approved a two-year pilot program that the school hopes will better meet the nutritional needs of its high school students, instead of the national school lunch program that limits school meals to 850 calories and left students – especially athletes – hungry, the newspaper notes.

The Sun Sailor says all other schools in the Wayzata School District will remain on the national lunch program and high school students who qualify for free and reduced lunch prices will continue to get support.
