
With the Conservative Party reported to be considering a raid on Ukip's far-right friends in the European Parliament in order to prevent its own grouping from collapsing, the deputy prime minister might want to take a look at the PM's latest list of Euro-pals.

Political parties in Strasbourg tend to form official groupings with other like-minded parties in order to increase their influence in the legislative assembly. In 2009, the Conservative Party left the centre-right European People's Party grouping, which includes Angela Merkel's MEPs, in order to form a new European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) group.

The move was controversial at the time, given the views of some of the people the Tories decided to ally themselves with. Michal Kaminski, the Polish MEP who was chosen to chair the new group, was not the most liberal of men. His view on gay people for example, "what should I say? They are fags", was a tad at odds with the pre-election Cameron modernising message.

However the ECR now reportedly faces collapse as it may not see enough of its MEPs re-elected in Thursday's Europe-wide vote. In response, the Tories are said to be courting the Danish People's Party and the Finns Party, two hard-right, anti-immigration that currently sit with Ukip.

Martin Callanan, the Tory chairman of the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) group in the European parliament, has confirmed he has been in contact with Morten Messerschmidt, a Danish People's Party MEP: "We have a very good relationship with Mr Messerschmidt.. and his views on Europe are close to the ones held by the ECR."

Meanwhile, influential Tory MEP Daniel Hannan visited Helsinki to have talks with Finns Party leader Timo Soini, prompting Labour's Gareth Thomas, the shadow Europe minister, to remark that a Tory alliance with parties holding "dangerous, extreme-right views, is a very troubling development".

The Finns Party, formerly the True Finn party, is led by Timo Soini. The anti-immigration party won 19% in the 2011 Finnish general election. MEP Teuvo Hakkarainen suggested gay people and Somali refugees be exiled to an island in the Baltic and is alleged to have used the N-word to refer to black people. And MEP Jussi Halla-aho was briefly suspended for the party after comparing Islam to pedophilia and suggesting Greece might need a military junta to sort out its economic problems.

The Danish People's Party, led by Kristian Thulesen Dahl, is not short of controversial members. MEP Morten Messerschmidt's youth organisation was convicted of incitement to racial hatred in 2002 for arguing rape was a product of a multi-ethnic society.  And the party's defence spokesperson Marie Krarup MP said Denmark should not accept any more Muslim immigrants . "We should limit the size of the Muslim minority in Denmark," she said.

The reports suggest Tory MEPs will be allied with people to the right of Michal Kaminski, who was initially chair of the ECR. Kaminski's views on some issues were so controversial it was reported that the US government raised them with David Cameron. Among many things, Kaminski has said the affirmation of homosexuality will "lead to the downfall of civilization" and also faced accusations of antisemitism .

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
