
E-Nor, Inc., a global digital analytics and marketing optimization consulting firm headquartered in Silicon Valley, California, is proud to announce that E-Nor Principal Partner, Bilal Saleh, has joined the Industry Advisory Council for the Department of Communication, Marketing and Multimedia Management at the Donald R. Tapia School of Business at Saint Leo University in St. Leo, Florida.

Bilal Saleh was invited by the school’s leadership to join the new advisory group. Saint Leo University’s School of Business is one of the largest and most respected private business schools in the nation. The council advises the academic department on issues that impact its vision, mission and strategic objectives. It also serves as a sounding board on planning new programs and activities, ensuring their programs remain relevant to industry demands and work toward developing a new generation of principled business leaders for the global marketplace.

“We are pleased to have Bilal Saleh as a member of the advisory council. Mr. Saleh brings with him a great wealth of experience within the digital marketing industry. As a council member, he will be instrumental in helping to develop future programs that guide our department through industry trends and advancements,” said Saint Leo University Assistant Professor and Communication and Marketing Department Chair, Dr. Diane M. Monahan.

Bilal Saleh is a Principal Partner at E-Nor responsible for the U.S. Southeastern region based in Tampa, Florida. Saleh is a veteran of the mobile industry and has a background of more than 20 years as a global executive with experience in consulting, qualitative and quantitative market research, business development, sales, marketing and general management. He helped shape the mobile industry through a number of key initiatives including founding the Location Interoperability Forum (LIF). Saleh chaired the board of directors for two consecutive years prior to integrating the organization with the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) in 2002. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electronics Engineering, a Master of Science degree in Computer Science and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He also holds three granted U.S. patents, and is a member of the Digital Analytics Association (DAA).

For more information on E-Nor’s Tampa office, contact Bilal Saleh at (813) 340-9639 or Bilal(at)e-nor(dot)com. To learn more about E-nor, visit e-nor.com.

E-Nor, Inc. established in 2003 and headquartered in Silicon Valley, California, is a global digital analytics and marketing optimization consulting firm devoted to enabling organizations to become more data-driven. E-Nor’s time-tested, platform-agnostic analytics framework provides digital intelligence through multi-device and multi-channel marketing optimization strategies, advanced analytics implementation, analysis, data visualization and training. E-Nor’s clients include Fortune 500 companies, educational institutions, governmental agencies and some of the world’s most recognized brands including Sony, SanDisk, eBay, MIT, Stanford, Accenture and more. E-Nor frequently contributes thought leadership content to industry publications and events, is a member of the Digital Analytics Association and a Google Analytics Premium Authorized Reseller. E-Nor annually contributes two percent of revenue to non-profits. E-Nor advises clients globally with offices in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, Dallas, Portland, Tampa, New York, Brussels and Dubai.

Saint Leo University is a regionally accredited, liberal-arts-based institution known for an inclusive Catholic heritage, enduring values and capacity for innovation. The school was chartered in 1889 by Catholic Benedictine monks in rural Pasco County, FL, making Saint Leo the first Catholic college in the state. Over its 125-year history, Saint Leo has provided access to education to people of all faiths, emphasizing the Benedictine philosophy of balanced growth of mind, body and spirit.

Today the university welcomes learners from all generations and backgrounds, from civilian occupations and the armed forces, and from all 50 states and more than 60 nations. Saint Leo’s 16,000 undergraduate and graduate students may elect to study at the beautiful University Campus in Florida, at more than 40 teaching locations in seven states, or online from other locations. The university’s degree programs range from the associate to the doctorate. Throughout these rich offerings, Saint Leo develops principled leaders for a challenging world.
