
[post_thumbnail]Truancy decisions vary among school districts.

Being a parent or legal guardian to a truant public school student in Idaho can be a frustrating experience. But depending on how a local school district establishes its attendance policies and depending on how the district enforces those policies, it’s a circumstance that can end up leading to an inquiry from a county prosecutor’s office.

“According to Idaho law, many of these decisions are up to the local school board,” explained Melissa McGrath, spokesperson for the Idaho State Department of Education. She told IdahoReporter.com that the state law defines what is known as a “habitually truant” student, and then places much of the responsibility for dealing with such problems in the hands of local school board members.

In cases of student truancy, the ways in which students and their legal guardians are addressed may vary according to school district. In the Nampa School District, for example, such problems are addressed at three different levels of violation.

According to information provided by Nampa School District spokesperson Alison Westfall, a student’s first truancy episode may result in nothing more than a telephone call to parents, or may rise to the level of student detention. A second offense may result in anything from detention to the establishment of a school-student “truancy contract” to a 3-5 day school suspension.  A third offense may result in suspension, a student’s loss of on-campus driving privileges, or perhaps a referral to the county prosecutor.

In the Twin Falls School District, truancy problems are addressed somewhat differently. Eva Criner, spokesperson for the district, told IdahoReporter.com that the district policy applies to students between the ages of 7 and 16 years of age at the time of their violation(s), and student expulsions and disenrollments are options that the district will, at times, consider.

Just as school districts are granted a lot of latitude in crafting their truancy policies, according to one county prosecutor staffer the prosecutors themselves have options in dealing with student truancy as well.

“We’re not out to criminalize people, we’re trying to do what is best for the student and to solve the problem,” commented Barry Black, deputy prosecutor for Kootenai County. He told IdahoReporter.com that whereas in the past state law only allowed for action to be taken against parents and legal guardians of truant students, state statutes have changed over the past decade.
