
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

A place to call their own on a college campus.

An old gymnasium at Kettering University is being transformed into a FIRST Community Center, which will house eight high school robotics teams.

There, the teams can build their robots, have practice space, collaborate with other teams and have college professors and students nearby to help mentor them.

"It's huge. It is huge. This is the only facility that we are aware of, of this kind, in the country," said Kettering University President Robert McMahan. "This is an opportunity for students to engage in robotics year-round and be on the college campus. ... High School students will have access to our students to our faculty and will learn in the college environment."

FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) was founded in 1989 inspire young people's interest and participation in science and technology, according to the FIRST website. It's a mentor-based program that builds science, engineering and technology skills, that inspire innovation, and that foster well-rounded life capabilities including self-confidence, communication, and leadership.

The roughly 9,600-square foot gym at Kettering will hopefully see completed renovations by this fall. Next to the gym will be a machine shop where students can build and design their robots for competitions. In the future, there will be an extra wing of rooms that will be dedicated to elementary and middle school students who are involved in FIRST programs.

The second phase of renovations will allow for a second floor with a conference area and space for eight more teams and will overlook the gym space.

Gail Alpert, president of FIRST in Michigan, said the creation of the FIRST Community Center is very exciting. It's the first of its kind for the fact that it's a center integrated into a college campus, she said.

The University of Michigan created a FIRST center, called the Michigan Engineering Zone, five years ago in Detroit but it wasn't on a college campus.

"This is exactly the type of university investment that we love. They have a chance to do something wonderful for the Flint community and have our students feel comfortable on their campus," Alpert said. "We are so excited I cannot even tell you. ... This will be the first center to house more than just high school teams."

Bob Nichols, director of alumni engagement at Kettering University, started FIRST on campus in 1997. Since then FIRST at Kettering has continued to grow. In 1999, Kettering offered their first two scholarships for college students. They now offer 31 scholarships.

They have gone to the world competition for 15 years and hosts multiple events a year at the university.

For Kettering this new FIRST Community Center just made sense, Nichols said.

"This is phenomenal. This will be the epicenter for Flint and Genesee County," Nichols said. "We have a lot more to offer in the robotics arena. It's probably going to be the best machine shop you've ever seen in a robotics center."

But it's more than just a new space. For these eight teams, whether already existing teams or new teams that are formed it's about having access to mentors and resources, which is a huge asset, McMahan said.

Roughly 25 percent of incoming Kettering students were on a FIRST team in high school. Having this center on Kettering's campus will open doors and opportunities for students and it will give a chance for Kettering students and faculty to give back.

"It's much more than space. The key to FIRST is the mentors," McMahan said.

Kettering has sponsored a FIRST team, Metal Muscle, for 10 years. The team, which is composed of students from high schools in the area that don't have a FIRST team and homeschooled students, will be one of the teams using the community center.

Students on that team not only compete in FIRST competitions but also work on ACT preparation and work on their academics.

Evan Wolfert, student captain of the Metal Muscle team at Kettering, said he is excited to see the new FIRST Community Center come to Kettering because it will be a great resource for students and future teams.

"What it's going to do is open the doors for a lot of FIRST teams that are struggling to find resources and to find a home," said Wolfert, 17, of Brandon Township. "Once it's complete, once it's done and once all the teams have moved in hopefully it will be a game changer. ... We will the first one we will be the prime example."

Wolfert, who is a senior at Clarkston High School, will be attending Kettering starting in July and will be a mentor to the teams who use the center.

The center will be a great opportunity for teams to communicate with each other to succeed. Being on a FIRST team is a lot of work. Between January and March, teams have to build a robot from scratch, program it and get it competition ready.

"Probably one of the best resources (of the FIRST Community Center) is just having other teams accessible. When you are working two doors down from another team not only do you build camaraderie but you also can get a second opinion," Wolfert said. "The best part about FIRST is the people."

Michigan has the most FIRST teams in the country with 277 teams, Alpert said. Kettering is very involved in FIRST and hosts multiple events throughout the year, so the community center just made sense.

There are so many benefits to a community center like the one being created at Kettering, Alpert said.

Many of the schools are intimidated by FIRST because it's quite hard and quite technical, she said. Have a collaborative space is a huge comfort to any new team to work together. Resources can also be shared, which is helpful to many teams, Alpert said.

"You don't have to do things alone," she said. "FIRST is highly collaborative anyways. This just take collaboration to the next level. ... So much of what we do is people doing things themselves and not collaborating, but this is such a great way to share resources. We just think this is the model and the way forward."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
