
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

PINE LEVEL The subject of an intense Autauga County manhunt was nabbed early Monday evening, after he asked a home owner to use their phone.

Christopher Wingard, 37, went to a home and asked to use the phone, Sheriff Herbie Johnson said. After making the call he left, and the homeowner called authorities, the sheriff said. The state prison system dog tracking teams returned to the area, found a hot trail and Wingard was placed in custody about 6:50 p.m., the sheriff said.

"Once the dogs got on the trial at the home it didn't take long," Johnson said. "The dogs started tracking him and he ran out of the woods right into one of my deputies."

Wingard is wanted on at least four felony charges by Millbrook police, Johnson said. He will be placed in the Autauga Metro Jail Monday night and local charges may be pending, the sheriff said. He will likely be turned over to Millbrook authorities Tuesday morning.

A deputy spotted Wingard walking along Interstate 65 about 1 p.m. Monday, and when the deputy approached him, Wingard bolted into nearby woods, Johnson said.

A manhunt that grew to include several dozen deputies, state troopers and Department of Corrections tracking team members criss-crossed the interstate and later concentrated the search in the area of Autauga County 66 and Autauga County 61, west of I-65. A Department of Public Safety helicopter clattered overhead for several hours, also helping in the search effort.

The active search was called off about 5:30 p.m., but officers remained in the area, Johnson said. The Department of Corrections dog tracking teams had left the area then, he said.

During the manhunt, officers set up roadblocks along Autauga County 66, searching vehicles and asking drivers if they had seen anyone matching Wingard's description. He is described as a white man, 6-feet-1-inches tall, weighing about 230 pounds and bald headed. He was last seen wearing a green shirt and gray pants. He is wanted on forgery charges, as well as several counts of failure to appear in court on misdemeanor drug charges, officials said.

Someone dropped Wingard off at a gas station at the intersection of U.S. 31 and the interstate about noon, then that person called Millbrook police.

"Millbrook called us and asked for our help in finding him," Johnson said. "That's why our men were in the area."

The Department of Corrections teams use beagles to track.

"We have a very good relationship with the prison system," Johnson said. "They have some of the best dogs in this part of the country. All we have to do is call, and they come right away. It's a very valuable resource that we have come to rely on."

All the commotion was out of the ordinary for this quiet community.

Taylor James was stopped at a roadblock on Autauga County 66 as she drove to her parents' home about a mile away. She allowed deputies to open the back hatch of her Chevrolet Tahoe to look inside.

"Lord, this is scary," she said. The officer thanked her and closed the hatch. "We live in Prattville now but I grew up here. These are some very thick woods. I hope they catch him."

Pine Level Elementary School went into a "soft" lockdown during the search, but school was dismissed on schedule, Superintendent Spence Agee said.

"We went into a soft lockdown after the sheriff's office contacted us as a precaution," Agees said. "In a soft lockdown people are able to move around inside the buildings, but no one is allowed to go outside."

Deputies set up roadblocks as part of the manhunt in the Pine Level area.
