
Two North Dakota school districts are poised to adopt four-day school weeks. For the Dunseith Public School district, a loss of $600,000 in funding means a shortened school week as a potential money-saver.

In another corner of the state, East Fairview Public School District is changing its schedule to mirror that of Fairview, Mont., where North Dakota students attend high school.

According to an Associated Press article last week, the Dunseith Public School District hopes to save close to $250,000 with a four-day schedule that decreases energy costs and such expenses as running the school cafeteria.

Superintendent Pat Brenden said the school district is following a pattern of other schools nationwide that rely on Federal Impact Aid Funding and have gone to four-day weeks in the wake of cuts.

Tough decisions often need to be made when a large chunk of the budget evaporates.

The Associated Press article also stated 95 percent of Dunseith parents surveyed said they supported the change if it meant teachers could keep their jobs and the quality of the education wouldn’t be hurt.

The option may prove successful. More than one-quarter of South Dakota school districts have four-day school weeks. However, because it works in one school district does not mean it will be a viable solution in another.

School districts need approval from the North Dakota Department of Public Instruction before switching to a four-day week.

The Killdeer Public School district submitted an application for a four-day week in 2006, but it was rejected by DPI. This is not something school districts can decide on their own.

According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, the school districts around the country that are adopting shortened weeks are usually small, rural districts. With so many of those districts districts in North Dakota, it is likely we will see more than two school districts shortening their weeks in the future.

School boards should do due diligence when considering this option and make a careful and prudent decision.

Copyright 2014 Bismarck Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
