
The biggest bank in Germany – Deutsche Bank AG made an official statement, revealing that about 60 million if its shares were sold to the Qatari royal family. The bank has set a goal of raising 8 billion euros (11 billion dollars) in its second-largest capital increase.

The bank’s announcement comes at a moment, when the business and regulatory environment is quite challenging and demands improving the current positions of Deutsche Bank AG. In addition, the bank’s earnings have been reduced by a collapse of debt trading during the last few financial quarters.

However, the bank must be aware of the fact that meeting its profit goals may be delayed by the capital increase, which is considered to  increase the capacity of Deutsche Bank’s financial stability.

A total of 360 million new shares will be issued by the bank. According to Deutsche Bank’s statement the Qatary royal family will purchase 60 million of the shares via Paramount Holdings Services Ltd, which is an investment vehicle of the country. The shares are estimated to 1.75 billion euros. The existing investors will get the opportunity to buy the remaining 6.25 billion euros via the so-called rights offering.

According to the information shared in the bank’s official statement, 29.20 euros per share will be  paid by the Qatari family. The latter will get a discount that amounts to 2.5%. According to people with knowledge of the matter, the discount for the 300 million additional shares that will be offered to the existing shareholders is expected to be higher.

BinaryTribune is a financial media specialized in providing daily news and education covering Forex, equities and commodities. Our academies for traders cover Forex , Price Action , Binary Options and Social Trading .

MetaTrader4, Market Trader,  WebTrader,

Regulated by FCA of the United Kingdom.

Founded in 2013, Binary Tribune aims at providing its readers accurate and actual financial news coverage. Our website is focused on major segments in financial markets – stocks, currencies and commodities, and interactive in-depth explanation of key economic events and indicators.

BinaryTribune.com will not be held liable for the loss of money or any damage caused from relying on the information on this site. Trading forex, stocks and commodities on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite.

This website uses cookies to provide you with the very best experience and to know you better. By visiting our website with your browser set to allow cookies, you consent to our use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy.
