
Share This Story!

More than twice as many high-school students in Arizona took the high-level Advanced Placement exams last year than a decade earlier, but the state's participation and success rates are still below the national average.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Teacher Renee Davis (center) talks with student Caessar Saldana (right) during a recent AP Literature and Composition class at Saguaro High School in Scottsdale.

More than twice as many high-school students in Arizona took the high-level Advanced Placement exams last year than a decade earlier, but the state's participation and success rates are still below the national average.

For the past two weeks,  high-school students across the state have taken end-of-course exams for AP classes, which are considered good indicators of whether a student will succeed in college.

The tests are scored on a scale of 1 to 5, with a 3 considered a passing score.

About 90 percent of colleges in the United States will award credit for an AP exam score of 3 or more, meaning the student doesn't have to take — or pay for — that class in college.

In Arizona, about 25 percent of the class of 2013 took an AP test during high school, with about 14 percent of the graduates scoring a 3 or higher on at least one exam, according to a report issued recently by the College Board, the non-profit organization that runs the AP program.

Nationwide, about 33 percent of the class of 2013 took an AP exam, with about 20 percent of the graduates scoring a 3 or higher.

Still, participation in Arizona increased 160 percent over a decade, with about 15,000 students in the class of 2013 taking a test, compared with 5,700 in the class of 2003.

Arizona also has closed the participation gap among Black, Hispanic, Asian/Pacific Islander, Native American and low-income students.

The number of students in those groups who take the exams has skyrocketed compared with a decade ago, though it's still below the percentage of minority students enrolled.

In 2003, only 309 low-income students graduated in Arizona having taken an AP exam, with 190 passing. In the Arizona class of 2013, 4,500 low-income students took an exam, and 2,200 passed.

Much of that change can be attributed to federal money, according to Peter Laing, coordinator for AP programs for the state Department of Education. The College Board charges a fee for each exam, which is $89 this year.

Starting in 2003, Arizona received a grant from the U.S. Department of Education to pay the exam costs for students who qualified for free and reduced-price lunches. It covered not only Advanced Placement, but also the exam fees for the rigorous International Baccalaureate and Cambridge courses.

"That had been a barrier in the past for low-income kids," he said. "Why would they take the class if they didn't have the opportunity to take the exam?"

But with budget cuts, that federal money is not keeping up with the growth of students taking the courses in Arizona, Laing said.

Last year, the department received about $700,000, compared with about $500,000 in 2010, he said. But it would have required about $1 million to cover all the costs.

The College Board waives $26 of the exam fee for low-income students in Arizona. The state doesn't contribute any money toward it.

So last year, for the first time, there was a gap of $10 per exam. This year, it's $18 per exam.

That's significant, Laing said, because several schools in the state who participate in the Move on When Ready early-graduation program are increasing the number of students who take the Cambridge exams as a way to finish high school faster.

Arizona students took about 42,000 exams in 33 subjects in May 2013, and about 56 percent scored a 3 or higher, slightly less than the nationwide average of a 57  percent pass rate.

Some students took more than one exam.

Laing said that this year, for the first time, the U.S. Department of Education is asking states to submit a grant application for two years instead of one, which he believes will provide some stability for the programs because funding levels will be known.

"I'm very excited about that because we've started down a path where we've seen progress," he said.

"And what we've seen is that given the opportunity, our kids can perform at the highest levels. When our kids earn a 3 or a 4 or a 5, it's the same as a kid who earns a 3 or a 4 or a 5 in Massachusetts."

Districts are having to find ways to make up that gap in the exam costs.

Laing said some are relying on donations or parent groups to fund the difference.

Phoenix Union High School District, which has schools using both Cambridge and International Baccalaureate exams as well as AP, is paying for the difference out of its operating budget, according to Craig Pletenick, spokesman for the district.

In the Scottsdale Unified School District, each high school will decide how to pay the difference.

Because AP courses are considered to be rigorous and challenging, some schools pay the entire exam cost for every student, regardless of income, as a way to encourage participation.

The Glendale Union High School District has used revenue from an override to pay the exam fees for decades, according to Superintendent Eugene Dudo. This year, it cost about $140,000.

Glendale was named an AP District of the Year for 2013 because it increased participation rates by 15 percent every year from 2009 to 2012, while also increasing the number of Black and Hispanic students who took the test and succeeded.

Dudo said that boosting participation took more than just paying for the exams. It involved a focused effort by teachers and counselors to get students who were ready for the challenge to sign up for the classes, starting with honors classes as freshmen.

A few years ago, the Scottsdale Unified School District opened up its honors and AP courses to any student who wanted to take them, according to Andi Fourlis, assistant superintendent for teaching and learning.

"We created a commitment form, where students commit to course with a set of expectations they understand," she said.

The district also increased the number of teachers who were trained by the College Board, even if they don't teach an AP course.

"We have sent teachers in English 1 to AP training so they know what it take for kids, and it can filter into work the work they're doing in ninth and 10th grade," she said.

Typically, costs for the AP teacher training is paid for by donations from parent groups, Fourlis said.

In December, Scottsdale was named an "Honor Roll District" by the College Board for because it increased access, with more students taking the courses and the exams, without decreasing success.

AP classes are not a requirement to graduate from high school in Arizona, and in many schools, students who take the class are not required to take the exam.

At the Basis charter schools, participation is 100 percent because students are required to take six AP exams in a variety of subjects to graduate. The schools pay the exam fees.

Elizabeth McConaghy, head of school at Basis Scottsdale, said her students take an average of 11 AP exams before graduating — most by their junior year because they begin taking them in eighth grade.

"What we really like about the AP exam is that it is objective measure of a student's knowledge of the curriculum," she said. "It's graded independently from Basis teachers and can be compared nationally and internationally."

A year ago, Young Han Kim, a student at Basis Scottsdale, earned a perfect score on the AP calculus BC exam. He was a freshman.

McConaghy said that high scores on the AP exams can boost a student's grade for that course.

While the number of Basis schools have increased, and, along with that, the number of AP exams taken, Laing said their growth doesn't account for the surge in participation statewide.

"At the same time, our 10 year expansion has also been the result of greater access and systems of support provided by schools and districts statewide — particularly with traditionally under served populations," he said.

•  The state with the highest number from the class of 2013 who passed an AP exam is Maryland, at 29 percent. The lowest is Mississippi at 4 percent.

•  The exam with the highest pass rate in Arizona was Chinese Language and Culture, with only one of the 56 test-takers receiving a score below 3. Among exams with more than 1,000 test-takers, Spanish Language had the highest pass rate, at about 73 percent.

•  The exam with the lowest pass rate in Arizona was Latin, with only four of the 24 test-takers receiving a score of 3 or above. Among exams with more than 1,000 test takers, World History had the lowest pass rate, at about 42 percent.
