
Share This Story!

Three Townsends — Noel, 37, Jason, 36, and Clayton, 33 — all earned bachelor’s degrees in petroleum engineering form UL on Saturday.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Three brothers received nearly identical diplomas Saturday at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette’s spring 2014 commencement ceremonies, distinguishable only by each of their names.

The Townsend brothers — Noel, 37, Jason, 36, and Clayton, 33 — all earned bachelor’s degrees in petroleum engineering.

“To us, it’s been no big deal, but, people do seem to be kind of surprised by us all going back to school together and getting the same degree,” Jason said.

The brothers, who grew up in Hattiesberg, Miss., enrolled at UL in fall 2011.

It was Jason who initially decided to finally heed the advice of their father, a former engineer in the U.S. Navy, who had been urging them all toward the engineering profession for years.

Jason had followed in Dad’s footsteps once before, enlisting in the  Marine Corps after high school. An intelligence specialist, he served in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Noel was working as a manager at Kinko’s at the time. “I couldn’t go any higher without uprooting and relocating,” he noted.

Clayton, who was working for his older brother at Kinko’s, was soon on board, too.

The brothers had all dabbled in college courses, but none had earned a degree. They chose engineering not only because of Dad’s advice.

“I won’t fluff it, petroleum engineering jobs pay the best, by a lot,” Jason said.

According to a recent report by the National Association of Colleges and Employers, petroleum engineering is the top-paying undergraduate major.

According to another report by payscale.com, graduates who received bachelor’s degrees in that field in 2013 earned an average starting salary of $103,000.

The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the mean annual wage for petroleum engineers is $149,180. The top 10 percent earn an average salary of $186,520; the lower 10 percent make $74,240 per year.

For the Townsend brothers, their decision to go back to school is already paying off.

Noel has accepted a job with Petra Consultants in Lafayette, where he will be a facilities engineer. Jason has taken a job with Weatherford International in Houston, where his focus will be on managed pressure drilling. Clayton, who wants to land a field engineering position, expects to hear back on one of his top job prospects as early as this week.

The plan is to gain experience, then eventually go into business together. “Our goal is to start our own consulting company,” Jason said.
