
A pilot project to screen fourth-grade students for their social and emotional health is wrapping up its first year and will double in size next year.

The project was outlined to members of the Scott County Board of Health, in a presentation by Molli Nickerson of the Scott County Kids organization, and Dr. Linda DeLessio, a pediatrician with Genesis Health Group, Bettendorf.

The project was offered in 2013-14 to one fourth-grade classroom in each of four public school districts: Bettendorf, Davenport, North Scott and Pleasant Valley.

Some 232 students who were screened showed that 19 were at "very high" risk for social or emotional problems that might affect their success in a classroom, along with 20 others who were at a "high" level, Nickerson reported.

Of the 19 at the highest risk, there were three students who had not received any services to address the issues.

The need for the Social and Emotional Screening pilot project was identified two years ago by school nurses. There is an advisory board, made up of 16 representatives of the public health sector, from the community and those with educational or medical backgrounds.

The major aim was to identify children who would benefit from additional services, and to get them those resources, Nickerson explained.

The planning was helped by a $12,000 grant from the American Academy of Pediatrics through its Community Access to Child Health program. The money "was very helpful" in designing the project, DeLessio said.

A similar program is used in other states, including Illinois, Oregon, Tennessee and Washington, Nickerson said. It is not a diagnostic screening, but it is based on finding appropriate services.

A small group of teachers and school administrators was presented and trained on the screening tool. After that, those teachers were asked to fill in a "strengths and difficulties" questionnaire for each of their youngsters, as it relates to their peers, in social situations, in their conduct and other areas.

Fourth-grade students were chosen because the project aims to learn about the social and emotional health of the youngsters before they reach adolescence. It is also the grade level when abilities, and difficulties, become more apparent, Nickerson said.

All four public school district superintendents were involved in the planning stages, and they provided connections to the actual schools, Nickerson said. Teachers completed the screenings between Thanksgiving and Christmas vacation breaks in late 2013.

The Mississippi Bend Area Education Agency also has agreed to build a database that can be used with the screening tool, Nickerson said.

The school districts gained a liaison officer who can connect the families identified with the available resources. That person, called a "Family Advocate" will work with nine schools in the area, Nickerson said.

Scott County Health Board members expressed some concerns, including how the children will be followed when they enter another level of school, such as junior high or middle school.

The hope is to identify the children who have "borderline" issues, explained Amy Thoreson, assistant administrator of the Scott County Health Department and a member of the project's advisory panel.

School districts will monitor their own students, Thoreson said, noting that counselors at all levels will be heavily involved in any screening program a district uses.

Next year, the project will be enlarged to an additional fourth-grade classroom at another school in Bettendorf, North Scott and Pleasant Valley, and two more in Davenport, Nickerson said.

Dr. Ann O'Donnell, a health board member, said the screening project should be offered to non-public school districts.

"This is an ever-evolving project," Nickerson said.

Copyright 2014 The Quad-City Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
