
BRUNSWICK, Ohio—It is a way to remember, and stand strong.

It has been nearly two years since four teens in Brunswick were tragically killed in a car accident , and on Sunday people in the Brunswick community gave comfort to the families of those loved ones in a very public way.

If you were driving on State Route 303 near Brunswick High School, around 4:00 p.m., you couldn’t miss it.

There was a sea of blue. Thousands of people were asked to wear the color in support of the city and the young lives lost.

The families of Kevin Fox and Blake Bartchak were there and told FOX 8 the support was amazing.

Both of the teens died, along with Lexi Poerner and Jeffrey Chaya, back in June of 2012 after a car accident in Columbia Township.

“The support of the community is unlike any other. It’s just incredible, even to this day,” said Bob Bartchak, Blake’s father.

“It’s amazing,” he added.

Many of the blue shirts worn had the victims of that crash named on them. But also, the event paid tribute to other young lives lost in Brunswick more recently.

There was a memorial wall at city hall, where anyone could look at pictures of the deceased. It was emotional for many people to view, but organizers were confident in the unique idea.

“It’s a way to remember and celebrate them instead of being so down and low about what’s been happening,” said Rachel Gaylord, who attended Brunswick High School.

The event was called ‘ Project Blue Line .’ The idea came about from high school students as a way to pay tribute to the lives lost, but also it was a way to enhance community and school pride.

“I keep walking out to the street and looking at the lot and oh my gosh,” said David Harley, who helped with the festivities.

The goal was also to break a record for the longest blue line ever, not to mention raise money for the Make-A-Wish Foundation and the Blue Pride Foundation.

It’s not yet known if they broke a record; and the money raised is still being totaled.

“It makes me speechless. The support is still there,” said Sean Fox, Kevin’s older brother.

For more on the Brunswick Project Blue Line event click here.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
