
Amber Sorg, principal of Douglas County's Rock Ridge Elementary, has been placed on administrative leave, according to  7News.

A group of parents rallied outside the school Friday afternoon in support of Sorg and her teachers.

The rally coincided with the Douglas County School District's announcement that it is reviewing pay-for-performance ratings at the school. Kevin Larsen, president of the school board, said evaluations did not match the final scores given to some teachers. But he did not announce that Sorg was placed on leave.

"It's shady that he didn't say that," parent Jen Johnson said. "People are shocked, teachers private-messaged me. 'What do you mean, what's going on? Are you joking.' "

Larsen said he didn't know how teachers scored, but sources told 7News the district is disciplining Sorg for scoring too many teachers too high in their evaluations.

The school district did not return multiple calls Saturday.

"You're hiding it for a reason. You don't want people to know for a reason," Johnson said.

The reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of whoever left poisoned meatballs at a Gunbarrel park — sickening three dogs — is now up to about $7,500.

About 100 people — and a few dozen dogs — gathered Saturday in Boulder for games, raffles and a silent auction, with all proceeds going toward a reward for information leading to a conviction. The fundraiser brought in $2,860.

The Colorado Bureau of Investigation says DNA test results are inconclusive in efforts to track down the person responsible for tainting the meatballs with an ingredient commonly used in pesticides and rodent poisons.

Boulder County Animal Control officers say at least eight meatballs were left in a grassy area of the park in April.

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
