
Santo Domingo.- Former president Leonel Fernández on Sunday said to enter combat the adversary will always want to "morally annihilate" a leader, and only time will tell if they were honest, ethical and moral.

He said the successor should be faithful and loyal to the values and principles espoused with his mentor, because otherwise that leadership will lack values. "The adversary will try to disqualify him morally, because he knows that if he disqualifies him morally, than one cannot continue to exist as a leader, because leadership rests on the credibility that is essentially an ethical foundation."

In his keynote ship "Leadership and power: how to be leaders in the 21st Century" before hundreds of young adults who launched the Youth Movement with Leonel (JUDEL), at Hotel Embajador, the former President described a cycle of leadership he says starts at its birth, grows and reaches a peak, and begins to descend, and that’s when the time comes to hand the torch over to the new leadership.

Fernandez said there’re no permanent defeats or victories in politics, adding that no one can be a good leader if they haven’t been a good disciple.

From: United States, EN PUNTA CANA: Jose H Con Leonel 2016!

Según esta encuesta, si las elecciones fueran ahora el ex presidente Leonel Fernández ganaría a cualquiera de los candidatos del PRD.

Señala que si su oponente fuera Vargas Maldonado, Leonel ganaría en primera vuelta.

Si fuera Hipólito, el 46% votaría por Leonel y el 31.8 por Mejía.

Sin fuese Abinader, el resultado es menos favorable para Leonel, pues un 43% votaría por éste en tato que un 40.8% por el candidato perredeísta.

LF should stick to giving lectures and reading books, because as president, LF fulfilled the laws of the "Peter principle".

"In an organizational hierarchy, every employee will rise or get promoted to his or her level of incompetence".

From: Dominican Republic, NEVER FORGOTTEN, NOR FORSAKEN!

Es verdad que este personaje no tiene verguenza.

This guy has no shame.

honest, ethical and moral.= whom are we talking about Ms Pig!

Danilo has to watch me as president a little longer so that he can steal/waste money as corruptly as I do.

From: United States, Vivir sin Patria, es lo mismo que vivir sin Honor.

Attn:  hernandez5482.  Well put mi amigo.

In the USA, we have a standing president who parallels your former President.  He has done that and much much more.

But there were those that were worse.  Former President Bill Clinton, had over 50 people (well documented-google it) who he had a relationship with, personal, business or government tied, all were killed (they use the word died) mysteriously.  I have asked dozens of my friends and business associates how many people they know who had similar events happen.  Not one of us could come up with one name who had anything remotely happen to any of their or my associates and/or friends.  And Clinton now is now revered as a senior statesman!  And his dyke wife, is posed to run for President in 2016.  And the foolish, stupid people who vote these people in office, do not have a clue.

If I were to take a leak in public, I get locked up for indecent exposure.  Go figure!

OMG  i have never read such a piece of BS  that thus firer president put out in this article.   How could he speak this with a straight face and not laugh.

Johnny these guys practice in front of mirrors, then in front of business associates who they are involved in deals with and if they can tell the story with a straight face and not cracking up they have enough practice to do it in front of a group of sheeple.  There are politicians and then occasionally there is a statesman - it looks to me like Danillo maybe slated for the latter.

"Richard Nixon is a no good, lying bastard. He can lie out of both sides of his mouth at the same time, and if he ever caught himself telling the truth, he'd lie just to keep his hand in."

........imagine what he would have said had he met Lie-onel!

No wonder NARCO Lie-onel is on the DESPERATION Speaking Tour!

SANTO DOMINGO (R. Dominicana).- Temístocles Montás, un vieja aliado que le ha salido respondón a Leonel Fernández, comparó la visión de liderazgo que tiene su compañero de partido con la que sustentó –y practicó— Joaquín Balaguer. Ambos propugnan la tesis de que el líder es irremplazable.

SANTO DOMINGO (Dominican) .- Temistocles Montas, an old ally that has come out to reply to Leonel Fernández, comparing the vision of leadership that hid party colleague with what lived - and practiced- by Joaquin Balaguer. Both advocated the thesis that the leader is irreplaceable.

El aspirante presidencial aventura otras conclusiones sobre las posiciones de Fernández: son caudillescas y mesiánicas, y nada está más alejado de la democracia, que es la perspectiva que él asume.

The presidential candidate ventures further conclusions on the positions of Fernandez: are chieftain and messianic, and nothing could be further from  democracy, than this perspective that he assumes.

The inmates in the PLD are voicing: "The king is dead, the king is dead, long live the (new) king!

Me no like Temo.

Professor as you well know there will possibly more hypocritical "defections" depending on how the winds blow as Lie-onel likes to say!

From: United States, EN PUNTA CANA: Jose H Con Leonel 2016!

Según esta encuesta, si las elecciones fueran ahora el ex presidente Leonel Fernández ganaría a cualquiera de los candidatos del PRD.

Señala que si su oponente fuera Vargas Maldonado, Leonel ganaría en primera vuelta.

Si fuera Hipólito, el 46% votaría por Leonel y el 31.8 por Mejía.

Sin fuese Abinader, el resultado es menos favorable para Leonel, pues un 43% votaría por éste en tato que un 40.8% por el candidato perredeísta.

Ms. Vickey desperately defending her man!

"La honestidad  es un regalo muy caro..No se le puede dar a gente barata...! "

Joseano:El que tiene sombrero, que se lo ponga!

Ms. Vickey desperately looking for attention from josean, I think its ROT-knee and tambora who are into shemales!

Danilo is SO FAR ahead of the other ladrones that there is no comparison. I dread (no disrespect Dreadlocks) the day when one of the political monkeys get back in power. Ther past couple years have been a refreshing change from the BANANA REPUBLIC leadership of the past.

Carpe Diem, go take your silly Republican rants elsewhere. this is DominicanToday. go sign in with some stateside site and rant all you want over there. nobody needs you here.

go away..fast.

Most "Likely" (Judas) answer.!

Note:  Pandora "Box".

This guy has no shame.

When a person has no class nor morals, he has no shame.......(cuando una persona no tiene clase ni morales, tampoco tiene verguenza).

SANTO DOMINGO.- Temístocles Montás prometió que luchará con decisión contra el continuismo, el clientelismo y el prebendalismo en el sistema político dominicano, hasta derrotarlo, para que el país tenga desarrollo institucional, democracia y justicia social.

SANTO DOMINGO -. Themistocles Montas promised to fight decisively against continuity, clientelism and cronyism in the Dominican political system, to defeat, to which the country has institutional development, democracy and social justice.

Segura, por su lado, consideró que las expresiones de Fernández no se corresponden con su función de presidente del PLD. "El PLD no es de nadie, es un patrimonio del pueblo dominicano que fue legado por Juan Bosch, el único que podía reclamar esa propiedad", indicó.

Segura, meanwhile, said that Fernandez expressions do not correspond with his role as PLDpresident. "The PLD belongd to no one, is the heritage of the Dominican people that was bequeathed by Juan Bosch, the only one who could claim that property," he said.

Even Lie-onel' s old comrades are rebeling agsinst his Demagoguery!

Again Temo takes a 2x4 to NARCO Lie-onel's head.....even calls him a liar taking a page out of josean's book!

Montás dijo que confía en que Medina cumplirá su promesa de no aspirar a la repostulación consecutiva que la Constitución prohíbe, sino por ser un político diferente a los mentirosos que decían una cosa hoy y otra distinta mañana, un hombre de palabra, como Bosch.

Temo returns the ball to Leonel: "The torch is now in the hands of Danilo"

Montas said he is confident that Medina will keep his promise not to seek consecutive repostulación that the Constitution prohibits, since he is a different politician from the liars saying one thing today and a different thing the next day, he is a man of his word, likke Bosch.

I wonder what Narco Lie-onel did to Temo his good buddy to piss him off so much!

Write your opinion here. Please keep your comment relevant to this article. Please note that any comments which contain offensive language or discriminatory expressions may be edited/removed.
