
This month, the Elgin Charter School Initiative submitted an application for the Elgin Math and Science Academy, a school that would use an approach that allows students to apply the skills they learn in the classroom to case studies, projects and fieldwork. It's called expeditionary learning.

"It's very hands-on. It's very locally based and it's a very exciting approach," said Karen Schock, a retired U-46 teacher and president of the charter group. "It makes learning really come alive."

Schock said the Elgin Charter School Initiative wanted to find a way to give students and families in the district different options with a focus on math and science — two areas where many students struggle, she said.

Schock said potential expeditions would likely revolve around "unique environmental features" in Elgin and the surrounding area.

District spokesman Patrick Mogge said in an email that a district committee is reviewing the proposal and that the Board of Education would convene a public meeting within 45 days of receiving the application, in line with state statute.

The board then will vote on the proposal within 30 days of that meeting.

"We cannot at this time speak to the merits of their proposal," Mogge said in the email.

In April 2013, District U-46 and 17 other school districts rejected the Illinois Virtual Charter School @ Fox River Valley, which sought to draw students from school districts in St. Charles, Geneva, Batavia and other suburbs.

At the time, many district officials said they were concerned with funding being diverted to the charter for each student who would participate. The charter estimated it would have received $8,000 in state aid for each student who signed up.

The Elgin school district does not have any charter schools.

If approved, the math and science academy would start with about 150 students from kindergarten through second grade, Schock said. The goal would be to build the school through the eighth-grade level.

"We want to foster each child's unique potential to exemplary standards of character, intellectual achievement and social responsibility," Shock said.
