
First Step, offered at Central Arizona College, is a summer program for Pinal County high school students.

Although the traditional school year is quickly coming to a close, it’s never too soon for high school students to consider enrolling in college courses, thanks to the First Step and Early College programs at Central Arizona College.

Through both programs, students who aspire to attend college can get an early start on earning college credit while receiving significant cost savings, a factor made even more important by the recent tuition increases within the Arizona University System.

“With the continued increase in college tuition rates nationwide and the financial struggles that many families are facing today, the First Step and Early College programs can provide a quality opportunity for students and their families to save on future college expenses,” says Luis Sanchez, CAC’s director of recruitment.

First Step is a summer program for Pinal County high school students. The program allows high school students to enroll in college courses the summer after their sophomore, junior, or senior year of high school while Early College allows Pinal County high school students the opportunity to enroll in college courses while they are still juniors and seniors.

Students who enroll in First Step or Early College may enroll in up to seven or five college credits, respectively, and receive a tuition waiver.

In order to be eligible for either program, students must be Pinal County high school students and are required to obtain permission from their parent or guardian and high school guidance counselor. If those criteria have been met, the student then must complete a First Step or Early College form (available from their high school guidance counselor as well as the CAC Recruitment Office) and submit it to CAC’s Records and Registration Office. Students will then be required to complete placement testing and attend an advising forum and new student orientation prior to registering for classes.

First Step classes are held during the college’s two summer sessions. Each session lasts five to eight weeks. The first summer session begins Monday, June 2. Early College classes are held during the college’s fall and spring semesters. The fall 2014 semester begins Monday, August 18.

First Step and Early College students are members of the college community and are expected to adhere to all college rules and regulations. Students are expected to attend all classes and are responsible for completing the withdrawal process for any courses they do not attend.

Having trouble logging in to your InMaricopa.com account? Enter your email address and click "Reset Password" to have your password reset and emailed to you.
