
The committee will search for a new president to replace Theo Kalikow.

Kalikow, who served as president of the University of Maine at Farmington for 18 years, came out of retirement to take over USM in 2012 after former president Selma Botman was reassigned after a faculty no-confidence vote.

Kalikow has a two-year contract with an option for a third. Her current contract expires June 30.

"It typically takes a year to conduct a search and find a replacement," said Bob Caswell, USM spokesman.

Trustees on Monday approved a $529 million budget that eliminates 157 positions across the University of Maine System, which includes eight campuses across the state.

This comes after a turbulent spring semester which included student protests and even a flash mob over the proposed cuts.

USM said it needed to cut $14 million from the budget. The school cut 12 positions that were later reinstated.

Meaghan LaSala, a member of the group Students for USM Future, traveled to Orono to express her concerns to trustees about the budget cuts.

"We explicitly stated that we feel the decisions that have been made so far have been unwise and have been poorly managed and that there hasn't been really forthcoming information about how these decisions are being made," said LaSala.

The student group said it also wants to be included in the search for a new USM president.

USM officials said the new president will need to steer the university in a new direction.

"If we have somebody here on campus leading us, who can advance that mission of a metropolitan university, that's a concept that has a lot of support here on campus and off campus. So I think that would be a very successful match to have a president with some experience and some knowledge of advancing a metropolitan university, and I think that's what the chancellor and the trustees have in mind," said Caswell.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
