
Albert Einstein came up with the famous equation describing the relationship between energy and mass. Now physicists propose a straightforward way of observing the conversion of light into matter.

God said, “Let there be light,” and there was light. Then four physicists said, “We have a simple idea for turning that light into matter” – and they may set off a race to demonstrate an idea first proposed 80 years ago.

Experiments at the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory have converted photons (energy) into electrons and positrons (matter). Physicists now propose a simpler way of demonstrating the conversion of energy into matter.

Oh well, one out of two ain’t bad.

In a study published online Sunday in the journal Nature Photonics, four physicists from Imperial College London and the Max Planck Institute for Nuclear Physics in Heidelberg, Germany, propose a relatively straightforward method for witnessing the conversion of two photons into two particles. The trio came up with the idea and hammered out the key details in a single, coffee-fueled day, according to Imperial .

The experiment the physicists describe requires the construction of a new type of subatomic particle collider. But they insist this would be much less complicated than, say, building the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, where physicists confirmed the existence of the Higgs boson .

Physicists would shoot high-energy electrons into a gold target, creating a high-energy photon beam. Those photons would be fired through the middle of a specialized tube with other photons inside. After pairs of photons collide and convert into electrons and positrons, a magnetic field would separate the particles as they emerge from the end of the tube.

Experiments at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center have already demonstrated that if you mix up a lot of photons at high energies, you can create pairs of electrons and positrons. But the SLAC machines would have needed to be about 4 times more powerful to pull off the same feat with only two photons, according to Pike, Mackenroth and Rose.

Rose , a plasma physicist at Imperial and the study’s senior author, said he and his colleagues are now looking for collaborators to build the collider and give their idea a try. He and Pike, a graduate student in the college’s plasma physics group, told the BBC that the collider could be built in less than a year.

“With a good experimental team, it should be quite doable,” Pike said.

Other physicists were skeptical that the device could be constructed that quickly. But they did agree that researchers would give it a shot.
