
EXPAT VIEWS,

and we are interested in your experiences.

Share your funny, memorable, frustrating or great experiences of Finland with our readers. Please send a brief email to This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.

with a piece of information about yourself and what kind of experiences you would like to write about, and we will give you more information on how to proceed with your story.

Aalto University has yet to find more than modest success in international university rankings, despite the fact that it was touted as a university of excellence already upon its establishment.

The Helsinki-based university has only been recognised once, in 2010, on the Academic Ranking of World Universities, a global ranking based on six indicators including the number of Nobel Laureates and articles published in scientific journals. Similarly, its standing on the Times Higher Education World University Ranking has slipped markedly in 2013—2014.

Tuula Teeri, who recently began her second five-year tenure as the president of Aalto University, argues that the work carried out by the young university has yet to be reflected in international rankings. “I can promise, however, that it will be reflected,” she affirms.

Research, Teeri highlights, requires perseverance. After a professor has assembled a research team, acquired the funding and carried out the research, it can take ten years until the findings are recognised in international rankings.

Meanwhile, several international indicators fail to do justice to Aalto University, which does not conduct research in for example medicine, reminds Teeri. The decline on the Times Higher Education World University Ranking, in turn, is attributable to the adoption of a new methodology.

Other indicators of the success of Aalto University, however, are already visible, argues Teeri. Between 2012 and 2013, the number of applications to the university increased three-fold and the number of completed degrees by six per cent. The number of ECTS credit points obtained by the students similarly increased.

In addition, several businesses and co-operative projects have sprouted around the university.

In job satisfaction surveys, Teeri also highlights, Aalto University has fared moderately better than other universities.

The merger of three universities into Aalto University required notable efforts, she reminds. “A big change stirs concerns and uncertainty. We strive to ensure that professors feel that they can carry out their own ideas and that students feel that they are appreciated,” Teeri states.
