
Reading “ Count Like an Egyptian : A Hands-On Introduction to Ancient Mathematics,” you get the feeling that David Reimer must be a pretty entertaining teacher.

An associate professor of mathematics at the College of New Jersey, he has taken on the task of explaining ancient math systems by having you use them. And though it’s not easy, he manages to lead you, step by step, through a hieroglyphic based calculation of how many 10-pesu loaves of bread you can make from seven hekat of grain.

He demonstrates how the characters in the zodiac can help you tell time at night (assuming you can see the stars): It’s easier to identify and track “the left heel of Taurus” than some anonymous star in a very crowded sky. He shows you a ruler from ancient Egypt, with objects measured in fingers and palms instead of inches and feet.

He interweaves his math problems with wonderful characters from mythology: Thoth, the god of scribes and wisdom, who on the day an ancient Egyptian was born would change into an ibis, fly down from the moon and inscribe on a hidden brick the day the baby was fated to die. And Gilgamesh, the Babylonian warlord, who wreaked terror on his enemies but was unable to persuade the gods to grant him the one gift he wanted — immortality.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
