
I wasn’t sure what to expect, to be honest. Freedom fighter, hotelier and entrepreneur Captain C.P. Krishnan Nair’s reputation preceded him. This was the man who revived India’s handloom industry in the 1950s. Who popularised the legendary bleeding Madras fabric, a triumph of marketing, in the ‘60s. And who kicked off a successful, and flamboyant, career as a hotelier at the age of 65.

Waiting to meet Capt. Nair in the lobby of the glittering Leela Palace in 2012, I conjured up an image of someone slick, quick-talking and ruthlessly efficient. Chennai’s Leela Palace was ready to be launched. And Capt. Nair had flown in for the occasion. Which made this the perfect time to do a profile on him. Only, the lead up to our meeting was decidedly nerve wracking. Hushed men in glossy suits gathered around me when it was finally time for the interview. We walked through long, gleaming corridors, passing various levels of security, till we reached Capt. Nair’s room. I apprehensively pushed open the door, only to see a sweet, dapper, cheerful 90-year-old man beaming fondly at me. “Give her a cushion,” he directed the entourage. A cushion? “Yes. Lean back. Be comfortable,” he smiled, as I settled on the sofa, amid a pile of quickly arranged cushions.

On Saturday, May 17, Capt. Nair passed away in Mumbai after a brief illness, aged 92. Over the weekend, there was — of course — plenty of press on him and his achievements. After all, he was a remarkable man who lived through, and in many ways influenced, the course of Indian history. But on a personal note, he was also one of the most extraordinary success stories I’ve met, as incredibly warm as he was undeniably sharp. As tough as he was courteous. Meticulous when it came to business, yet happy to take a break for interesting gossip.

Over the next four hours, Capt. Nair slowly and conscientiously led me through his life, tenaciously resisting any attempt I made to move to what I considered the highlights of his career. “Bleeding Madras? The Leela hotels? No. No. That comes much later. First let me tell you about what happened when I was 11 years old.” Resigned, I finally sat back and listened.

After Chennai, he moved to Bangalore and ended up joining the Army. In between, he took three weeks off “for spiritual pursuits” and went to Rishikesh in saffron robes. “I met Swami Sivananda there.” (One of the best known Yoga masters of the 20th century, Swami Sivananda, is the inspiration behind the Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centres, which currently stretch from New York to Tel Aviv.) “I followed him everyday, till he said ‘Don’t pester me’.” True to character, Capt Nair did not give in. “I made him a kutir to meditate: cleaned the area with an axe, swept, arranged leaves on top. It took two days. He finally agreed to move there.” Today that area belongs to the Divine Life Society, his ashram.

The rest is, of course, history. He married Leela, the daughter of a handloom owner from Kannur, and subsequently worked on revolutionising the Indian textile industry. Then came Bleeding Madras, and the Leela hotels, which he named after his wife.
