
There is no one like Veenapani Chawla in Indian theatre. There is no other group like her Adishakti — certainly there hasn’t been any since what we call ‘Modern Indian Theatre’ began. All her life she has pursued theatre wherever and in whatever form she found it, studying traditions as diverse as ‘Chhau’ and ‘Kalaripayattu’, absorbing elements that would help her grow as an artist. It has not been a random, unfocussed casting about for something that will ‘work on stage,’ or ‘infuse a new energy in our theatre’. Veenapani’s has been a concentrated search for methods for which one could use the word ‘spiritual’, except that I don’t like the word. Veenapani may not object to its use: that goal has defined her entire life in theatre.

If she has predecessors in her experiment, it is those European pioneers in mid-twentieth century who, put off by the venality of what passed for theatre in the West, sought to reach the roots of their creativity. This often brought them to the medieval theatre of the East. Antonin Artaud, a French actor, wanted to glory in the possibility of cruelty in art and found clues in Balinese theatre. The Polish Jerzy Grotowski, in search of ‘sacred theatre’, came to Kerala to study how the body could be used as the source of energy in theatre communication. His disciple, Eugenio Barba, Italian, built his laboratory in Denmark, for the investigation of ‘performance universals’ across different cultures. Then there is the Englishman, Peter Brook, less intense and more narrative, moving from experiment to experiment.

She has sought out so many great experimenters of our generation that one is grateful that her talent didn’t get burnt out in the process. But there is another danger inherent in such an ‘inward plunge’ Grotowski is a guide but also a warning: he ended up as a mystic, and Naseeruddin Shah, who spent several weeks in his ashram hoping to receive his theatrical insights, returned home disenchanted.

I am a playwright and this school of theatre virtuallly denies the validity of my work since narrative devices, psychological portrayal of character, and logical verbal explanations — words, words, words — are all eschewed. The attempt is to enable the performer to establish contact with the inner zone, one’s psychic centre. Words, when they appear, teeter on the brink of gibberish, subsidiary to the language of the limbs.

In her conversation with Leela Gandhi, who, apart from being a renowned scholar in post-colonial studies, is also her niece and associate, Veenapani charts out her development. She was a school teacher, teaching English and History in Bombay, when one day she was asked to direct a play with children. At that instant, she found her metier and her purpose. The play was Aurobindo’s Savitri, and it led Veenapani to Pondicherry to study Aurobindo's thought — which she says has a deeper basis for theatrical exploration than Stanislavsky’s.

Fortunately she soon found another actor who shared her views, Vinay Kumar K J. Together they started adapting M.T. Vasudevan Nair’s Malayalam novel on the travails of Bhima. It was to be a monologue with the actor playing all the characters by reshaping his face as masks and with no accessories except the body.

In Pondicherry, things began to happen. They were joined by Nimmi Raphel, a dancer married to Vinay Kumar, and Arvind Rane, an ex-advertising man who followed Veena to Pondicherry and is now their ‘mizhavu’ player. Others came and went, but the four have remained a tight-knit group, undeviating in their pursuit.

Her more recent plays can be difficult to grasp, since they have delved into increasingly complex themes, often based on myths. But I invariably put aside the explanatory notes that are helpfully supplied. For the total sensory experience of each performance is so shaped by the control of the body and the visual projection of voice and breath, that I find it unnecessary to get a gist in words.

It would certainly require some courage and a lot of conviction to dissent.
