
Students who have enrolled and registered online for McNeese State University’s 2014 summer classes have until 4:30 p.m. June 4 to pay fees. Classes begin June 9 for the regular summer session, according to a release from the university.

Summer session bills are available online to students through the MyMcNeese Portal or their Banner Self-Service account.

To access the fee bills, use the “View My Bill” link under the Student and/or Registration tabs on the Banner Self-Service page, or go to the “View My Bill” link under the Quick Links section on the MyMcNeese Portal homepage. Parents or guardians needing to have a copy of the fee bill will need to have access to their student’s online account or have the student print a copy of the fee bill.

Students can also view and print their registration, fee deferrals and bookstore accounts, the release states. At the top of the fee bill there will be links to view detailed bill information, to add a parking decal, approve financial aid authorization and pay the fee bill.

Students can go online at www.mcneese.edu/payment to see the payment methods and payment policy on credit card payments and online payment changes. For more information, contact the McNeese Accounting Office at 337-475-5107.

A fee deferral plan is offered to students attending McNeese this summer through the administrative accounting office. All registration fees, including tuition, special assessments, class-related fees and meal plan charges, are eligible for the fee deferral plan. Students are required to pay one-half of the total fee amount by 4:30 p.m. June 4 and the remaining fee payment is due July 1. There is a $30 processing fee.

The McNeese bookstore offers an interest-free student charge plan to all students enrolled for the summer session to assist with the purchase of books and supplies, according to the release. The Personal Touch Account allows students with a valid ID and a current paid fee receipt to establish a student charge account at the bookstore, which can be used at the beginning of the session for one month for the purchase of up to $600 in books and supplies. At the close of the purchase deadline, each student is billed for purchases made.

PTA accounts for the summer will open May 27 and run through June 27. The PTA payment deadline is July 7. For more information, call the bookstore at 337-475-5494.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
