
The information presented in articles about Baer's arrest include minimum background information on Baer other than he is a lawyer who recently moved to New Hampshire from New Jersey. He provided no personal information during his interviews other than he is a lawyer. A call to the NH Bar Association, however, revealed that he is not yet licensed in New Hampshire. A google search for his name turned up a William Baer who co-hosted, with Dan Haggerty, a tea party type radio show "The Baer/Haggerty Offensive," on "Repatriot Radio," several years ago. "Billy" Baer and Haggerty were described as "citizen journalists" whose interviews included Jerome Corsi who co-authored the Swift Boat attack book and whose statements include insults to Islam, Catholicism, and the Clintons. But he's even more famous for his full tilt birtherism which he promoted on the rightwingnut website, World Net Daily. And that where the search for the real Baer gets really interesting.

In April of 2012, Baer and Haggerty organized an appearance, by Corsi, in Morristown NJ during which Corsi promoted his bizarre and discredited belief that Pres. Obama was not born in Hawaii. Attendees at the standing room only event included a number of local officials who had "questions" about Obama's citizenship. Baer, a resident of Harding Township (There is a William Baer with Guilford NH and Harding Township NJ addresses ) claimed that Obama can't be a US citizen because his father was not a US citizen and the Founders "wanted any president to have both parents as US citizens." Baer said that "the issue is of critical importance to the future of the nation."

But obviously, we can't be sure if this "Billy Baer" is our William Baer, but the Morristown Tea Party Facebook page does have an entry about William Baer's arrest. Corsi has an article about Baer's arrest for protesting "a graphic sex book." (It's not. The sex scene, depicting a forced intercourse, was one paragraph). There is, however, a YouTube video, titled "Billy Baer Gilford NH No Obama birth certificate 11/5/09," posted by NJ Common Sense, in which this Mr. Baer, who sounds remarkably like our Baer (but is wearing a cap so it's hard to see all his features), drones on about Obama's citizenship.

The heroism of Fox's William Baer is featured on Granite Grok, a NH right wing blog that supports Cliven Bundy and, of course, freedom, so you know what you're dealing with right there! Grok reports , with video, that Baer spoke about his hideous school board experience at a meeting of a NH 9-12 group, an organization founded by Glenn Beck, so you know what you're dealing with right there! And interestingly, Grok has a 2012 entry which shows "Billy" Baer, when he was with his radio show, at a "Nullify Now" rally in Philadelphia. The man in the photo is either our Baer or his twin.

contributing to the delinquency of minors!

values.

This is what happens when you trust “schooling” (act like fish) to government.. I’ll bet the book fits Common Core guidelines.

Mr. Waddle, It is called hyperbole. I never compared the book to a Flynt publication. My overstatement was in reaction to you assuming everyone who has a different moral standard than you would have the need to force that on you. I could not care less what you allow your child to experience. Of course not all Afro-americans gave their vote to Obama due to skin color, but be honest and admit the percentage of prejudiced whites that refused him the vote on that basis probably did not exceed that of the blacks that gave him the vote merely based on race.

I am part of the we the people and the radical left at times does not express my view points. Having said that, I get nauseated quickly over the radical right (Hannity, Beck).

No, Ben Carson probably would not have a chance among the populace either black or White. You see, he believes in giving grants to those who have a desire to succeed and do not have equal opportunity. He believes in rewarding those who work hard scholastically. He has given millions to that cause. With disregard to race, the American population is a long way from JFK stating, "Ask not what your country can do for you. Everyone wants a free lunch and Carson is not going to promise that. On the other hand that was the Hope You Can Believe In that won a lot of votes.

I would not be so arrogant as to assume you are an idiot. Truthfully, I could probably learn something from you.

Not anti-Obama. Happen to be a democrat. Not right wing anything. Not homophobic. Not against women´s rights by any stretch. Hate no one. Certainly not in agreement with re-distribution of wealth, but am heavily involved in vocational training for the poor, feeding the impoverished, tutoring the less fortunate in various subjects, etc.

Probably would be considered more conservative than liberal by you, but I think labels are worthless.

Jeff, You’re wrong on so many levels but I’m sure there is no changing your little mind. The entire Republican mind set is against change of any kind except lower taxes on the rich. If you really think that African Americans only voted for Mr. Obama because he is black then perhaps the republicans should nominate Allen West or Dr. Ben Carson (Lol). Either one should be a shoe-in. You comparing the book in question with Hustler magazine firmly cements your reputation as an idiot for eternity. And finally, of course there is a left wing agenda. The difference is that the left wing agenda favors us all, you know, “We the people”. The radical right wing agenda is designed specifically to favor  The rich, the wealthy, the 1%, Wall Street, banks and other financial institutions, Giant corporations, Giant Agra, Giant Pharma, Insurance Companies and is controlled by rich, ultra-Conservative, narrow minded, hateful, misogynistic, homophobic, xenophobic, deceitful, hypocritical, lying, old, white men. HUGE difference there, Jeff.

-I am not fine with it the text from this book being placed in my daughter´s hands. My opinion, my right.

what Baer did is against your mind set. No different than the birthers. No different than those who simply voted for Obama because he was black (90 of Afro-americans gave him the vote chiding a rap song, “WE GOT YOUR BACK MR. PRESIDENT”. Equally as wrong to oppose his election on race.

Did this jornalist research Sandra Fluke and admit she staged her protests from the start, or did she just accept Fluke on the grounds of what she represented? Same for Mr. Obama. He needed a poster child to prove Repubs hate women. I am Democrat by the way.

Brilliant, Mr. Baer, 12 years ago you staged conceiving a female child and then moved to a different state just to place your daughter in a school where you knew she would be given this book without authorization.

This was NOT about perverts lurking around the playground. It was about his radical right wing agenda. You can’t ban books just because there is one sentence  that you disagree with. It’s just one more instance of those trying to force their religious and moral standards on EVERYONE. If you don’t like the book then don’t read it.

Really? What an agenda. No problem with the major staging of Sandra Fluke that required no investigation, but you go to all this trouble to drag a Red Herring? The issue is: The man did not want his daughter to read the vulgar excerpt. So crude was the text that the board defiantly denied it be read aloud. After all it might offend and was not for the general public. Go figure. And the board trying to use Hugo Chavez tactics inflamed an issue that could have been dealt with tactfully. I do not want my daughter exposed to the trashy text in the book. I have a right to be offended and express that.

Great work digging this all up, Priscilla.  Thanks!

Faux does do their research, they simply ignore what doesn’t fit their agenda and milk what does. I’m sure they are fully aware that William is “Billy.” I wouldn’t be a bit surprised if the NH or NJ Teabaggers, or Billy himself contacted Faux.

Billy conceivably did use the school board meeting arrest as a stunt, or his rightwingnut, “OMG our children can’t be taught the reality of sex” outrage may have begun as genuine and he decided to turn it into a stunt. Either way, we haven’t heard the last of him. For a little while. The Faux trolls can’t drift too far away from their raisons d’être – Benghazi and Hillary’s brain damage.

Fox doesn’t care about all of that.  If it’s true, it just enhances his bona fides’s for Fox. We can expect to see MORE of him, not less. He’s just another cockroach coming out of the sewer.
