
Sixty years after the Brown v. Board of Education decision, U.S. schools need a lot of work.

The achievement gap between white and black students in reading has widened since 1992.

Just as the nation marks the 60th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s  Brown v.  Board of Education decision, which officially barred segregation in public schools, we have new evidence that schools are failing to give all students the best start in life.

Results of the National Assessment of Educational Progress, often referred to as “the nation’s report card,” show that the performance of high school seniors in reading and math has stagnated in recent years. Only 37 percent of seniors are reading at grade level and only 26 percent of seniors are doing math at grade level. Even worse, the achievement gap between white and black students in reading has  widened since 1992. In math, there’s been no improvement.

The stark reality is that despite two decades of education reform efforts, high school students on the whole aren’t registering better results. The effects are potentially catastrophic.

At least 20 percent of students aren’t even graduating high school – that’s a slight improvement over recent years, but nothing to write home about. Furthermore, the graduation rate for white students (83 percent) far outpaces the graduation rate for black students (66 percent).

And even many of the students who do graduate high school are not prepared for college. The Lumina Foundation finds that only about 40 percent of American adults have at least a two-year college degree. Here, too, white degree attainment (44 percent) outpaces black degree attainment (28 percent).

This is a problem for our whole society. Unless we can find a way to improve high school and college completion rates, we’ll be on a course for lower economic growth, less innovation and greater inequality.

What the latest 12th grade statistics reveal isn’t a snapshot of a single year; it’s the aggregate effect of subpar performance throughout elementary and high school. As a result, solutions must target students early.

We know that high-quality early childhood education can yield major benefits for students, not just in school, but throughout their lives. We should ensure that all of our low-income students have access to high-quality care and education. Likewise, emphasizing reading at grade level early on provides a strong foundation for learning across disciplines throughout a child’s academic career. We also have to diagnose disabilities at an early age, before students suffer years of falling further and further behind.

And intangibles count too. Every school must reinforce that all children are capable of learning. Kids understand when adults have high expectations and when they don’t. In too many schools, the message kids are getting is that they’re not destined to succeed.

Despite the persistent bad news on the achievement gap, some schools are showing success by emphasizing the basics and setting high standards for every student. For instance, public charter schools have demonstrated remarkable success in helping minority students achieve at levels equal to or greater than white students. Every student at Urban Prep Academies in Chicago is a minority and every student has been accepted to college since the inaugural class in 2010. The average college acceptance rate in Illinois is 57 percent.

In New York, the Success Academies take pride in the fact that they’ve flipped the achievement gap – African-American students at many of their schools are outpacing white students across the city and state of New York. And at D.C.’s Thurgood Marshall Academy charter school, where 100 percent of students are minority and 80 percent are on the free-and-reduced lunch program, every single one of the school’s students in each of its graduating classes has been accepted to college. The school’s alumni are graduating college at rates five times higher than their neighborhood peers.

The basic recipe in these schools is a never-quit attitude matched with extra hours of learning, intensive focus on reading and math, and heavy involvement from parents (because learning can’t stop at the schoolhouse door). There’s no reason every public school in America can’t adopt the same practices.

If the last 60 years have taught us anything, it’s that changing the way public schools operate is excruciatingly difficult. The best of intentions can fall victim to bureaucratic inertia or outright hostility to change. But it’s well past time to put the focus of education policy squarely on learning. It took courage for the Supreme Court justices to strike down segregation in the 1950s, and it will take courage for education reformers, parents and policymakers to do what needs to be done to improve public schools today.

Until we can say that every child, from every background, graduates high school ready for success in college or a career, the promise of  Brown will go unfulfilled.

Nina Rees is the president and chief executive officer of the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools. Rees has more than 20 years of experience in Washington, D.C., including at Knowledge Universe, the U.S. Department of Education and working as a deputy assistant for domestic policy to Vice President Dick Cheney. Follow her on Twitter:  @Ninacharters .

Nina Rees is the president and chief executive officer of the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools. Rees has over 20 years of experience in Washington, D.C., including at Knowledge Universe, the U.S. Department of Education and working as a deputy assistant for domestic policy to Vice President Dick Cheney. Follow her on Twitter: @Ninacharters .

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
