
PATNA: With the admission season round the corner and new academic session knocking the door, A N College, one of the constituent colleges of Magadh University (MU), is yet to come out of hangover of 2014 Lok Sabha election. The college administration has not been given the possession of the building yet as a number of EVMs are still lying on the campus.

DM N Saravana Kumar said the district administration is aware of the fact that delay in the transportation of EVMs might hamper academic works in the college. "We have already started the transportation process of EVMs which is likely to be completed by Tuesday. The college administration will get back the building possession on Tuesday itself," the DM said and added the district administration will undertake repair of the college, if necessary. "This will be done simultaneously with the day-to-day activities of the college without hampering its functioning," he said.

Talking about the upcoming academic session in the college, principal Lalan Singh said the examinations for the II and IV semesters of post graduate courses are scheduled to commence from May 22. The notification for admission in intermediate, degree and PG courses will be issued in June. The application form for admission will be available at Rs180 each, the principal said.

Meanwhile, J D Women's College administration is not yet sure about the fee structure for the next academic session. Professor in charge of the college Laxmi Sinha said she will be able to provide accurate information only by the end of the month as the MU's directives regarding the next academic sessions are yet to come. The application form for admission will cost Rs200 this year, she said.

T P S College principal Baban Singh said the next session will commence from July and the admission seekers will have to cough up Rs120 for each application form. He said the admission will be taken on the basis of cut-off marks which will be announced by the college administration after the results of the qualifying examinations were out.
