
A 3 percent salary increase for teachers and other school staff in the Napa Valley Unified School District has been approved by the district’s board of trustees.

This raise, which is retroactive to April 1, is the first since 2007, when school staff received a 5.5 percent salary increase, according to district officials. In the years in between, school employees underwent cuts and furlough days, which equated to a salary reduction of about 3.8 percent during the leanest year, said Wade Roach, assistant superintendent of business services.

The salary increase, which was approved last week, impacts nearly 1,500 employees, which includes teachers, the classified staff and other school employees.

The pay raise will increase the Napa school district’s annual personnel expenses by more than $3.8 million, Roach said.

The California School Employees Association represents a wide range of school staff, including maintenance, food service, clerical workers and more.

Floyd said that most classified employees work part time, and the staff reductions and furlough days made it hard to meet family demands. Many employees who were spared from cuts had to take on more than one job.

For a first-year teacher, the 3 percent increase is equal to about $1,474 a year. The starting salary for teachers in the Napa school district is $49,140, Roach said.

By salary alone, the Napa school district is in the top 25 percent for teacher compensation in the state. But by factoring in teachers’ total compensation package, including benefits, Napa drops down to the top 50 percent, Roach said.

Frugal spending in recent years, along with increased funding from the state, has made the salary increase possible, Roach said.

Proposition 98 is the main source of funding for K-12 schools and community colleges. Annual funding is based on increases in enrollment and state revenue. The passage of Proposition 30 (the education tax measure) in November 2012 has helped increase revenue. And because the state has deferred payments to school districts in recent years, one of the priorities for the state has been to pay back those debts.

“It’s a new era in public schools for California, with the commitment to finally having some resources to improve our programs and our staffing on behalf of our children,” said Jerry Fillingim, the labor relations representative for the Napa chapter of the California School Employees Association.

Linda Hansen, president of the Napa Valley Educators Association, credited the salary increase to the passage of Proposition 30 and Gov. Jerry Brown’s focus on the public school system.

“That’s where the future is,” Hansen said.

Hansen said the funding boost will also help the schools hire more teachers, counselors and other staff, which will ultimately benefit the students.

“It’s not just that it’s going to give us a pay raise, it’s providing more jobs and lowering class sizes,” Hansen said.

Copyright 2014 Napa Valley Register. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Money won't fix the education problem in California... When will we learn? Does it have to be retro-active? Yah seems a bit excessive. I am a teacher and still don't like the message it sends.

Glad it is something, but not nearly enough!

So, if my Math is correct teachers are still 0.8 % behind 2007.  Is that right "a teacher?"

You couldn't pay me enough to do what most teachers do in the course of their day!  I don't know one teacher that doesn't work for at least 2-3 hours over their class room time, plus several hours...or a full day on the weekends. I've seen first hand, more than once, how the right teacher can connect, motivate and mentor a student to do so much more than they thought they could. Thanks for all you do!

Students deserve better and this isn't enough. Teachers didn't get raises for years (and recruitment and retention of top teachers suffered) and now they're getting 3%. CPI went up 2.6% last year when they had no raises, so they're starting from behind already. Teachers' wages are not keeping up with inflation for an incredibly important job. Great teachers do more to prevent crime than police, instill more citizenship than politicians, and change lives every day in big and small ways that matter for all of us. They deserve not only a raise to keep up with inflation, they deserve better medical coverage (their benefits have been reduced with nearly every contract in the last 10 years), they and their students deserve safer schools, and teachers deserve our thanks.

And while teachers wages are in the top 25% in the state our kids are failing to learn and API test scores are below state average and STAR tests show our kids are failing Math, Science, History and English Language.

On average all cost to the tax payers we spend over $18,000.00 per student in public education, it is not the tax payer, if anything it’s the gross mismanagement of public ed.  The CTA/NEA leaves out key cost components, retirement benefits or understates the cost, so they can make it appear significantly less.

It’s worse at the college level…there are publicly funded universities that are have administrators and faculty with better than a million dollar salaries.

Read the article again.....50%.  Read the test stats again.  Tell me you actually don't know why some schools do better than others.  It's not the teachers.  You know that.  Learn about the effect of socio-economic factors that influence school success.

I read it correctly the first time...it says and I quote "...the Napa school district is in the top 25 percent for teacher compensation in the state.

And, I know where you are going with your (socio-economic) racist comments about the students because that is what unionists do to anyone they fear...they attack at the very gutter level.

I applaud any raise for teachers. I could never do what they do, except for the summer part.

And 50k per year in some cases isn't even enough for them to afford to live in Napa where they teach. Depending on family size they could qualify for free or reduced lunches at the schools they teach at if they were students. Now that's a sad state of affairs..

Actually, after 5 years of college to receive a degree, it's not really as great as it sounds.

You must have never taught school, or been close to someone who has, or you would realize that teaching (at least K-12) is definitely NOT a part time job!  As NapaHighFan says...it's low enough to get a family "assistance" in many ways.  Indeed a sad state of affairs.

I deplore unions and most of what they stand for, but I agree with alu completely.

It's easier to get positive results when the students you teach always have enough nutritious food to eat, a safe and comfortable bed to sleep in, parents who are able to be home to chauffeur them to classes and extra-curricular activities, help with homework and the freedom to be involved in their children's class room.

Some teachers have 30 kids in a class room with about 75% who have none of those advantages. Poor nutrition over-all,  no breakfast, slept in the car because mom had to work the late shift at a fast-food restaurant, or had to hear their neighbors fighting all night,  no extra money for anything, parents who aren't educated sufficiently themselves to be able to provide any help to their children. The playing field is definitely un-even! This is no "gutter-level" attack. It's the reality of our community.

Try again aluca....over $18,000.00 per student....that's what is cost the tax payers.

Most people who are taking it in the shorts have an interest in things like trends...the trends of waste in education is destroying public ed...thank the CTA and NEA.

It’s great job…just not enough quality educators thanks to the CTA.

Mashed- You're kidding right?  Teachers can get fired.  Most fridays?  What?  I don't know any teacher that leaves at 3pm.  And yes, we can have a sub ALMOST any time we need one, but I don't know one teacher that takes advantage of that.  Why?  Because it's almost more a pain to prepare for a day out of the classroom than it is to go.  Also, we LIKE teaching.  And yes, tenure after 2 years because it's hard to find teachers and keep them.  Why?  Because it's, for the most part, a thankless job for little pay.  Many teachers in the US have a supplemental job.

Username & Password Required!
