
ARA: The third convocation of Veer Kuer Singh University (VKSU) was held on the campus of the university on Monday amidst protest by the students' union. The police had to use force to disperse the agitating students and arrested at least a dozen student leaders. Chancellor-cum-governor D Y Patil had to inaugurate the function but he did not turn up due to unavoidable reason.

The chief guest on the occasion, A Lakshminath, vice chancellor, Chanakya National Law University, Patna, inaugurated the function. Speaking on the occasion, he said VKSU serves the educational needs of more than one crore people of old Shahabad that includes Bhojpur, Buxar, Kaimur and Rohtas districts and the university is making every effort to adapt itself to the changing world by introducing several vocational courses. He said, "Over 70 percent Indians will be in the working age by 2005 and our young demography is an asset. We should prepare this population for their future role by giving them a solid foundation," adding it is equally important for universities to give importance to autonomous research and build linkages and collaboration with premier institutions in India and abroad. An inter-disciplinary approach will undoubtedly give proper value orientation to our educational system, he said adding it is important to simultaneously develop moral values along with scientific temper.

Vice chancellor Azhar Hussain read out the chancellor's speech in his absence. The governor expressed his disappointment at not coming and said students deserved appreciation for their success. "Whether students enter the job market or pursue further higher studies and research, they must keep in mind that there is no end to knowledge and education," the governor advised the students through his speech adding merely obtaining a degree is not enough.

CNLU VC presented degrees to the students and gold medals to 21 scholars.

Earlier, NSUI members blocked the road at the VKSU gate while AISA members entered the venue and started raising slogans against the university administration and tried to disrupt the meeting. The police resorted to lathicharge injuring a dozen students. Some students were arrested.
