
Aron Pilhofer, a senior digital executive at the New York Times, has been appointed to the role of executive editor of digital at the publisher of the Guardian newspaper and theguardian.com.

Pilhofer, who has the official title associate managing editor for digital strategy at the New York Times, has been appointed to the newly-created role at Guardian News & Media by Janine Gibson, launch editor of the Guardian's US operation.

"When we began talking in March, it was immediately apparent that Aron would bring the right combination of passion, ambition and skill to the Guardian," said Gibson. "He is a terrifically talented and visionary editor, who clearly understands the future of digital journalism and we're delighted he is joining our team."

Gibson is returning to the UK later in the summer to take on the role of editor-in-chief of theguardian.com.

Pilhofer, who is also editor of interactive news at the New York Times, will be tasked with developing digital journalism initiatives and tools as GNM looks to grow its global online audiences.

Pilhofer will work for the first few weeks in the Guardian's US newsroom before moving to the London office.

"The Guardian has proved to be among the most exciting places to do quality, ambitious digital journalism on a global stage," said Pilhofer. "I'm thrilled to be joining the team at such a fantastic time."

During his time at the New York Times, Pilhofer was responsible for a range of functions, including developing the newsroom's technology offensive, new product development, analytics and social media.

As the editor of interactive news at the New York Times, he led a 40-strong team which was embedded within the newsroom.

In April this year, the Guardian announced that theguardian.com reached the 100 million monthly unique browser figure for the first time.

The appointment of Pilhofer is the latest high-profile digital appointment at GNM.

In October 2012, GNM appointed Wolfgang Blau, the editor of the online version of German newspaper Die Zeit, to the role of digital strategy director.

Blau, who reports into Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger, is tasked with "creating and tailoring content for digital with a view to maximising revenue and audience."

Blau said: "Aron Pilhofer is a pioneer of digital storytelling and inspires so many digital newsrooms in their search for the journalism of the future. We are incredibly excited to have Aron join the Guardian during this critical phase of entering into a more collaborative relationship with our readers around the world."

• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook .

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
