
PUNE: The admission process for engineering degree courses in the state for the year 2014-15 is likely to be delayed by two to three weeks, director of technical education (DTE) S K Mahajan told TOI on Monday.

"We expect the centralized admission rounds to commence by the end of June or the first week of July," he said. This is mainly because of a delayed start to the All India Council for Technical Education's (AICTE) approval process for new technical institutions and for variation in student intake, courses and other aspects in the existing institutions. "The approval process will continue till June 10," he said.

"The Maharashtra State Board For Secondary And Higher Secondary Education is expected to declare the higher secondary certificate (HSC, Std XII) March 2014 exam results on May 30. This will be followed by the process for submission of online application forms for engineering seats and declaration of merit list over the next one month," Mahajan said.

An updated information on the total number of approved engineering colleges, courses and student intake will have to be in place by the time the students will be required to fill up their option forms. As such, the approvals by the AICTE and the grant of affiliations by the universities to the new institutions are expected to come by the end of June.

As of now, there are 365 engineering colleges in the state and their collective student intake is over 1.51 lakh seats. The new institutions and variation in the student intake and addition of new courses at the existing institutions will add to these numbers. While there has been concern over the large number of engineering seats remaining vacant for the past few years, the AICTE has already taken a stance that it can not stop any organization from starting a new technical institution if it fulfills the norms.

The Supreme Court on December 13, 2012 had pronounced a judgment that specified a time-bound schedule of admissions for technical institutions. The judgment provided that the AICTE must grant or reject approvals by April 15.

However, the AICTE's approval process for 2014-15 was held up in the wake of the April 25, 2013 judgment by the Supreme Court, in another case, declaring that the council's nod was not required for institutes affiliated to universities or for the grant of affiliation to new technical colleges by the universities.

The University Grants Commission (UGC), which regulates higher education in the country, had since come out with a set of draft guidelines for new technical colleges/institutes. While these guidelines are pending final approval by the HRD ministry, the UGC had also declared a one-year moratorium on the sanction of new technical colleges in the fields of engineering and management.

The situation changed once again when the Supreme Court while hearing a writ petition by the Orissa Technical Colleges Association, passed a set of interim orders on April 17 and May 9, restoring the AICTE's powers to approve new technical institutes or colleges for the year 2014-15. These orders enabled the AICTE to start the approval process from May 10.

On Monday, the council even extended, till May 24, the last date for submission of online pleas by the existing institutions for variation in student intake, launch of new courses and other aspects. For new institutions, the last date of filing online pleas got over on May 18.

The Maharashtra State Board For Secondary And Higher Secondary Education is expected to declare the higher secondary certificate (HSC, Std XII) March 2014 exam results on May 30. This will be followed by the process for submission of online application forms for engineering seats and declaration of merit list over the next one month.
