
It is fascinating to be part of the world right now. So many of us are exploring and defining what we need to do to adapt as individuals and institutions by making adjustments, taking risks and trying new things. We live in a world that requires the mindset of a perpetual student and the sensibility and capacity of that of an artist.

As challenging as some things are in business, politics and the economy, I can’t help but find this to be an exciting time. The realities are indeed tough with multiple converging forces squeezing so many of us out of our comfort zones, but we must be resilient and work hard not to get distracted or give up.

A couple years ago I wrote a blog post titled,   It’s Our Time – The Next Industrial Revolution , where I took a look back through history with an eye toward the future. While writing it, it was easy to identify with many of the stories of people in the middle of those pivotal “moments” in the first and second industrial revolutions. Today, many of us are experiencing the incredible energy and positive force that is breaking through to the next industrial revolution. But we have a lot of work to do.

In his article,  Is American Entrepreneurship Dying? , Ben Casselman, writes about the decline in U.S. entrepreneurship that started over 30 years ago. In it he states,

As we dig into the data, pull insights and explore multiple solutions needed to turn this around, we also need to work in parallel to bring people together to build a strong community to solve for the issues. A diverse community with a wide range of expertise with participants from startups, corporations, academic institutions, students, public officials, etc.

We need to ask questions, learn about each others successes and failures, identify how individuals and organizations overcame resistance and how they mustered up the courage to take the next step past the idea. We also need to continue to lead and nurture the entrepreneurial spirit that is needed to sustain our efforts.

One way we can lead entrepreneurship is through community, education, action and stories.

Starting a business and innovating both require courage. Courage comes from having faith in your ability to succeed. And what we often talk about here at Innovation Excellence is our belief that faith in your ability to succeed can be nurtured through innovation stories.

Eric Apse - Partner, IBM Venture Capital Group & Ecosystem Development    - "This is a very exciting time with the convergence of cloud, data, social and mobile transforming how companies engage with customers and how we interact with each other. This major shift presents new and countless opportunities for both entrepreneurs and established businesses."

Based on where everything is, it will take strong focus and will to stay inspired to influence the positive change necessary to thrive in this environment. It is encouraging to see what this community is capable of.

Our goal is to collect 100 stories this year to help spread your stories and inspire courage. We would love to hear from you!  You can submit your innovation story here.

Lynda Koster is the Programs Partner and Integrator 3.0 for Innovation Excellence. Living and working at the intersection of creativity, data and technology, her core expertise is strategic development and implementation planning, providing integrated business, and marketing solutions to clients. She is a hands-on explorer and life-long learner focused on new and evolving trends and innovations that impact the future of business, marketing and people. She is author of Business Reads Today .
