
The democratizing effects of CubeSat technology extend beyond the university campus. Less technologically developed nations are using them as steppingstones toward their own fully fledged space agencies.

Colombia and South Africa have jump-started national space programs with CubeSats built by university students. Romania, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Israel and Denmark also have ordered CubeSats.

The first Colombian satellite was launched in 2007 by a group of university researchers. One of the researchers, Elkin Cifuentes, is now CEO of Sequoia Space, a company focused on spreading aerospace knowledge to universities and government agencies throughout Latin America.

Sequoia is currently helping the Colombian air force to build its first satellite, scheduled to launch in 2015, and to develop a 20-year space plan.

The challenge, Cifuentes said via Skype, is to convince governments that they can grow their own space programs without purchasing expensive satellites from a major aerospace firm. If the government has the money, there is a tendency to want to buy the biggest and best satellite it can afford. But purchasing an advanced satellite does little to grow institutional knowledge.

Another pitfall of purchasing a sophisticated a satellite is that governments don’t know how to manage all of the data or simply have no use for it. It’s better to start with a satellite that only has two or three instruments, Cifuentes said, so that they are not overwhelmed with information.

Sequoia is trying to replicate the model that it first tested in Colombia. The idea is to get universities on board first. Once the first student satellite is launched into space, it becomes easier to bring the government on board to develop its own, home-grown space program.

The company has helped start programs at three universities in Colombia and one in Peru, and sold parts to universities in Chile and Ecuador. Bolivia has expressed interest in Sequoia’s program and the company is reaching out to Costa Rica, which has been developing its own satellite program for the past two years, Cifuentes said.
