
The day she was born, I held my daughter in my arms and stared into her eyes. It was a wonderful moment. I thought about all the things that lay ahead for her – and for my wife and me as we entered this new phase in life called parenting.

Growing up as the oldest of 19 kids (and counting), I thought I knew a thing or two about children. My little girl is now four years old, and with two little brothers right behind her, my kids remind me daily that nothing can adequately prepare you for what parenthood.  It’s a heavy responsibility knowing that you will shape who your children become.

As I tuck my own children in bed at night, I can’t help but think of Justina Pelletier and her family.

Lou and Linda Pelletier shared with me that they faced a long road when their now 26-year-old daughter Jessica was first diagnosed with Mitochondrial Disease five years ago. They sought top-notch medical care, and were able find ways to help their daughter cope with this rare condition, and miraculously she began to get better.

In 2011, like her older sister, then-13-year-old Justina was also diagnosed with Mitochondrial Disease, and the Pelletiers found themselves again turning to medical experts for help. They took Justina to Tufts Medical Center in Boston where they connected with a specialist named Dr. Mark Korson, the Chief of Metabolic Services at Tufts.  He is one of America’s leading experts in treatment of Mitochondrial Disease. She also received special care from Dr. Alex Flores, a gastroenterologist at Tufts. Not long after she began treatment, she was able to return to a relatively normal life.

Dr. Peters concluded that Tufts was wrong, that Justina wasn’t suffering from Mitochondrial Disease, but instead from a psychiatric condition called Somatoform Disorder.

Dr. Peters pushed Lou and Linda Pelletier to sign papers for a new treatment plan which would remove Justina from her medications, place her in a psych ward, and prevent her parents from receiving a second opinion. When Justina’s parents refused to sign, saying they wanted to take her back to Dr. Korson at Tufts, BCH did something no parent can fathom.

BCH called the Massachusetts Department of Children and Families (DCF), charging the parents with “medical abuse” for their intention to follow the protocols recommended by the doctor they trusted and who had written Justina’s treatment plan. Not only did DCF charge the Pelletiers, but after a brief emergency hearing, DCF removed Justina from her parents’ permanent custody.

Her parents’ visitations are limited to only one hour per week and a short 20-minute phone call. Justina hasn’t been able to attend any religious services, and DCF has refused to even allow her minister to visit her. She was forced to spend Christmas and Thanksgiving all alone in a hospital bed.

Allegations of neglect include over 134 children who have been completely lost while in DCF’s system, numerous cases of abuse and even 95 children who died between 2001 and 2010.

Last week, DCF moved Justina to a Connecticut facility. While it may appear to be an improvement, the reality is that DCF still has custody and there is no guarantee Justina will be returned to her parents.

As DCF has shown, the government is not always adept at decision-making, and it really does make a terrible parent.

Josh Duggar, a star of TLC’s “19 Kids and Counting,” is executive director of Family Research Council Action.
