
This is the .38-caliber revolver and ammo found in the car of a Kenton Ridge High School student on Monday afternoon, May 19, 2014. The gun was not loaded, according to the Clark County Sheriff's Office. The student was taken to the Clark County Juvenile Detention Center.

A 16-year-old Kenton Ridge High School student is in detention after a .38-caliber revolver was found under the passenger seat of his car Monday afternoon.

The student will remain in the Clark County Juvenile Detention Center on a felony charge of possession of a firearm on school grounds, Clark County sheriff's Sgt. Chad Brown said.

Louis Kramer, Northeastern Local Schools superintendent, said the student was honest with administrators at the school, located on Middle Urbana Road, and told them he inadvertently brought the weapon to the school.

"When the report was made to building administrators, the situation was resolved very quickly," Kramer said.

According to Sgt. Brown, the principal called the sheriff's office at about 1:56 p.m. after receiving word about the weapon from another student.

The preliminary investigation suggests the student told that second student about the gun -- which was not loaded -- and that student told the principal, Brown said. The principal searched the car and found the gun and a box of ammo containing 50 rounds, Brown said.

The car was parked on school property and the principal does have the authority to search personal property, Brown said.

Kramer said the student gave school administrators permission to search his vehicle. Sheriff's deputies were called and took the student who brought the weapon onto school property into custody at the school.

"We do not believe anyone at the school was in danger at any time," Brown said. That conclusion was reiterated by Kramer, who noted that ironically, the district is conducting safety drills at its schools this week. Classes for schools in the district end May 29.

Kramer said that while he cannot speak specifically about a possible punishment for the student because the case is still under investigation, "a student still can be suspended and then be recommended for expulsion" for a situation like the one the student is accused of committing.

The student is due in court on Tuesday morning for an initial appearance.

The name of the student will no longer be used because of his age and because the district supeintendent and sheriff's officials said they did not believe the incident posed a threat to students.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
