
The All Progressives Congress, APC, has said President Goodluck Jonathan’s aborted trip to Chibok, where hundreds of girls were abducted, is typical of his administration’s policy flip-flop against the terror group, Boko Haram, which carried out the abductions.

The party said the President had bungled the fight against Boko Haram, and had demonstrated “sheer cluelessness” in handling the abduction of the school girls.

“With his utterances and actions or inaction, President Jonathan has deepened the pains of the parents and guardians of the girls, and indeed that of the whole nation, when he should have been the consoler-in-chief at such a difficult time for a nation he leads”, the party said.

The APC said to worsen matters, the government had resorted to lying to Nigerians by saying that the President never planned to visit Chibok in the first instance, even when it was widely reported in the local and international media that the President’s advance team had landed in Borno State before the presidential volte face.

“Do presidential advance teams deploy themselves at will?” It queried.

The party advised the President to visit Chibok, but to do so without informing the nation ahead of the trip.

The APC said even in the seemingly hopeless situation in which the administration had found itself, it could still begin to make amends by immediately packaging a presidential visit to Chibok that would only be announced after the President had returned, instead of one in which the president’s men leaked the trip to the world in the hope of “gaining mileage, only to reap opprobrium when the trip was cancelled and then blame everyone but themselves”.

The APC said the president himself made his “lying aides” to look clean when he said he did not go to Chibok because the girls are not held there and also because the trip will not lead to their release.

“This statement shows that President Jonathan does not understand the demands of his office, and that in good/bad times, he is to be seen and heard as the lead celebrant/lead consoler for his compatriots. His statement is the most pedestrian justification of a presidential faux pas ever”, the party said.

“As usual, a trip – belated as it were – that could have gone a long way in redeeming the battered global image of the Jonathan’s administration in the handling of the abduction issue has turned out to be another albatross for the President. Again, a president who is demonstrably averse to success has snatched defeat just when he was on the cusp of victory”, it said.

The party said the President’s decision to ignore communities that had faced tragedy, could only encourage citizens resort to self-help.

“A President and Commander-in-Chief who is afraid to visit any part of his country has betrayed the very people who voted him into office.

“In the case of Chibok, he has shown that the residents of the town should not expect to be seen as compatriots by their own president, hence they are on their own.

“This definitely explains why, increasingly, Nigerians are resorting to self-help, why ordinary citizens are taking up cudgels, machetes and dane guns to battle Boko Haram. It is nothing but the clearest indication of state failure and presidential ineffectiveness”, the party said.

Apc, what is ur dirty problem wt Goodluck Jonathan, u killers, u heartless old fools, u wnt 2 kill our president in chibok as u killed innocent nigerians in recent times, God wll disappoint u nd ur families, u hv killed again in kano, u wll also be killed soon.

Ahmed sule u ar still in blindness in PDP if u do not’ve better thing to say just maintain ur speech. U better join  APC as ur next party orderwise sorry will b posion.

Apc, u shld stop disturbing our president u hv d chibok girls in ur custody, dey are nt in Sambisa forest, u kept dem in a compound built by Babagida, Buhari, Shittema, Tinubu, sultan b4 nw, 4 dis purpose of tkn power by force, i advice d soldiers nd Goodluck 2 stp searching 4 dese girls in d forest, nd focus on islamic schools, government houses, private houses of northern retired generals nd former head of states, Apc wll nt rule dis country.

I salute mr president, Goodluck Jonathan, u are a man indeed, no satan, king, throne, abduction, propaganda, Boko haram, Apc, coalition, conspiracy, Tinubu or Shittema cn stop ur 2nd term bid, we shall vote 4 u in mass come 2015, use ur brain, u ar their target nt d abducted girls, Allah wll protect u.

Nigerians should avoid listening to unnecessary propaganda against our president.  As far as I know,  mr. President has been doing his best and I will like to use this medium to advice all the opposition parties to join hands with  mr. President to ensure that we win the war against our common enemy. Please, support mr. President in order to protect Nigeria.

Let Nnamani visit chibok afterall he is the vice president after all Jonathan visited the creeks when Yar’Adua was presidenta.

The weakness,cluelessness and incompetency of this govt. has paralysed every sector in Nigeria with calamity Jona at the helm.Where are all his attack dogs,are they sleeping nothing to write or say again.This govt must find these girls and bring them back to their parents.Stop playing politics with precious life of our citizens.

Let me join fellow Nigerians to demand that the entire members House of Representative with thier leadership visit Chibok to see to the impending rescue operation and may I also include in thier entourage persons like Wole Soyinka, Tinubu, Gov. Okorocha and Gov. Chubuike Amechi. While at it, Gov. Nyako and Kwakwaso should joing the bevwac at zambisa with thier Brotherhood of Boko Haram.

God save the king. They’ve planned to kill him.

Hmmmmmmm,dis people want to kill our presido.especially now we don’t knw how many more maj gen mohd we have in d army who would lead d presido into an ambush.pls mr president don’t expose urself to danger over what the apc has to say blc u can never please them even if u kill urself.and for d maga talking,I don’t remb u being every nigerian who voted for GEJ to speak their mind.moreover I believe u and ur likes did not vote for him sef.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
