
More than 6,000 graduate from U.Va.

Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus gave the keynote address during Final Exercises at the University of Virginia on Sunday. He told graduates to try to contribute to something that will outlive them.

Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:30 pm | Updated: 3:42 pm, Tue Jul 22, 2014.

The University of Virginia conferred degrees on more than 6,000 students at its 185th Final Exercises on Sunday.

The ceremony, which featured a speech from Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus, drew more than 30,000 people to the Lawn, according to the university.

Under a clear blue sky and cool temperatures, graduates walked the steps of the Rotunda for the last time before the landmark closes down for a two-year restoration project. Next year, Final Exercises will be split into two separate ceremonies, with the procession running through the narrow alleys between the Pavilions of the Academical Village.

The procession took more than an hour, as students filed in from the north side of the Rotunda and the alleys between the Pavilions. Many of them carried colorful balloons that they released when President Teresa A. Sullivan officially conferred degrees upon each of the schools.

The common theme among all of the speakers at Sunday’s ceremony was a call to service.

Before serving in his current post, Mabus had a long career of public service that included stints as a naval officer, governor of Mississippi and U.S. ambassador to Saudi Arabia.

As parting advice, he told graduates to try to contribute to something that will outlive them.

Sullivan reminded students of founder Thomas Jefferson’s commitment to public service and told graduates to remember his values after they have left.

“In all that you do, commit yourselves to the common good,” she said.

Sullivan noted that she and the Class of 2014 had grown up together — the undergraduates had been first-year students when she was beginning her tenure as president. She said she entered the job with reservations about their generation, but the students had affirmed her faith in them by playing an active role in university and political life.

“The Class of 2014 will always be special to me because we were first-years together,” said Sullivan, drawing cheers from the students.

Following U.Va. custom, the students broke into groups based on school and major for separate diploma ceremonies. Graduation at the School of Law featured a speech from U.S. Rep. Joseph Kennedy III. Afterward, Kennedy accepted a diploma on behalf of his late great-uncle, former U.S. Sen. Edward M. “Ted” Kennedy, who skipped out on his law school graduation in 1959 to help with his brother’s presidential campaign.

Posted in State-regional on Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:30 pm. Updated: 3:42 pm.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Metro columnist and reporter for The Times-Dispatch who's never afraid to take sides on hot-button issues in Central Virginia.

RTD political reporter and columnist, Schapiro has covered Virginia elections and the state Capitol for 30 years. He warns, however, not to read or watch his commentary on a full stomach!

To log in, enter the email and password for your Times-Dispatch All Access account.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
