
She has been serving as interim president since Don Snyder's retirement in December.

Lehigh Carbon Community College has tapped its interim president to take over the role full time.

LCCC announced Monday afternoon that Ann Bieber, who has been acting as interim president since Don Snyder retired from the position in December, will become the college's fifth president July 1.

Snyder, president for 13 years, had planned to leave in September, but retired early because of a cancer diagnosis.

Kenneth Mohr, chairman of LCCC's board of trustees, said the trustees believed Bieber provided the best skills for the job.

"Dr. Bieber's expertise in administration, in higher education and her student-centric approach to leadership will help guide Lehigh Carbon Community College to new levels of academic success," he said in a statement.

The college conducted a national search using Florida-based firm Greenwood/Asher and Associates.

The other finalists were: Joyce Ester, former president of Kennedy-King College, City Colleges of Chicago; Doreen Larson, president, Pierpont Community and Technical College, Fairmont, W.Va., and James Moran III, former vice chancellor for academic and student affairs for the Pennsylvania System of Higher Education.

Bieber, 57, has held other roles at the college since 1981, including senior vice president for administrative services. In that position, she oversaw more than 40 staffers and an $8 million budget, according to a news release from LCCC.

While vice president for administrative services, Bieber was instrumental in the development of the $7 million John and Dorothy Morgan Center for Higher Education in Tamaqua in 2003, and in helping the college secure more than $11 million in scholarships, grants and other financial resources, according to the news release.

While serving as interim president, Bieber has strengthened LCCC's partnerships with local businesses, nonprofits, educational institutions and the military, according to the news release.

She earned her bachelor's degree from Cedar Crest College, her master's from Kutztown University and her doctorate from Capella University.

She's a member of the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corp., Workforce Investment Board of the Lehigh Valley, and the Council of Presidents of the Pennsylvania Commission for Community Colleges.

LCCC is the latest local institution of higher learning to see a change in the top job.

Bryon Grigsby took over as president of Moravian College in July, the same month Alison R. Byerly arrived to helm Lafayette College. Northampton Community College inaugurated President Mark Erickson in 2012.

Meanwhile, Lehigh University is in the midst of a search to replace President Alice Gast, who is stepping down July 31 to become president of Imperial College London.

Likewise, Kutztown University is looking for a replacement for President F. Javier Cevallos, who will step into the same role in July at Framingham State University near Boston.

Muhlenberg College President Randy Helm announced earlier this year that he will retire in June 2015 after more than a decade on the job.

LCCC, founded in 1966, serves more than 7,500 students, offering two-year associate degrees, certificates and specialized diploma programs.

The LCCC board is scheduled to formally approve Bieber's appointment at its June 5 meeting.
