
New Zealand Eco Fashion Exposed has announced today that four International Designers as well as several New Zealand brands have registered to participate in NZ’s Eco Runway to be held in Lower Hutt, 23 – 27 July 2014.

Included in the designer line-up is GREEN EMBASSY from Perth, Australia, a brand that is currently taking the international fashion industry by storm.

GREEN EMBASSY, known for being Australia’s first internationally recognised organically certified fashion label, will present its high end line of handmade pieces during the week of eco fashion in New Zealand.

Just 5 months after its official launch, the creator of the WA-based brand has been invited to feature in a string of the globe's most glamorous fashion events, including the 2014 World Fashion Week Première in Paris.

Perth-based artist and designer Zuhal Kuvan-Mills designer of the brand, has been confirmed as a member of the prestigious World Fashion Week International Committee, along with 20 other influential fashion professionals and leading personalities from around the globe. Kuvan-Mills has also recently been announced as Official Haute Couture Representative of Australia at the 2014 World Fashion Week in Paris.

New Zealand’s own Stansborough Ltd have also confirmed their attendance at this year’s runway. Perhaps better known for their work in costuming for blockbuster movies “Lord of the Rings”, “The Chronicles of Narnia”, and “The Hobbit”, Stansborough Ltd is a 100% Pure New Zealand, fully sustainable, innovative weaving company and uses only pure natural fibres which are produced on its own Wairarapa farm.

The wool comes from an historic breed of sheep, the only ones of their kind in the world, and the fibre is spun in New Zealand before being designed and woven into sophisticated textiles on looms which date back to the 1890's.  Every piece of fabric is hand finished and steam pressed before being developed into a unique range of finished products which sell to high end markets around the globe.

Stansborough has been established for 20 years and has supplied designers over the years with textiles for Fashion Garment Collections, but this is the first time the brand will present its own runway collection.

“We are extremely proud and fortunate to have these two prestigious world class brands presenting at New Zealand Eco Fashion Exposed 2014” says Director/Eco Designer Denise Anglesey.  “The line-up of designers is of extremely high quality and fall into three eco catagories – Ethical, Organic and Up Cycled”.

Designer applications are still available online at www.nzecofashionexposed.co.nz .  Established, new and student designers are encouraged to register their interest as soon as possible.

ENDS.
