
To which Jones responded: “Then don’t,” and turned back to his meal.

Yet Jones, who grew up in Midland, Tex., where he knew the George Bush family, and spent his college years on a scholarship studying literature at Harvard, where he roomed with Al Gore, is a politically and artistically sophisticated man. That sophistication is amply evident in The Homesman, the new western which made its debut at the Cannes Film Festival on Sunday morning.

Jones produced, directed, stars in and helped write the script (adapted from Glendon Swarthout’s 1988 novel). The story follows a 31-year-old “spinster” woman, Mary B. Cuddy (Hilary Swank), who agrees to escort three mentally ill women from the frontier back to Iowa.

Mary is accompanied by a claim-jumping former military deserter, George Briggs (Jones), who she is paying for the job. Though the premise of the plucky young woman and the dissolute older man on a redemptive quest is familiar (The African Queen to True Grit), The Homesman has an uncharacteristic feminist twist, and implicit commentary on the destructive toll of American individualism and uncivilized capitalism.

Jones’s previous Cannes competition film was 2005’s The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada, in which he starred as a surly Texas rancher who returns the body of his murdered ranch hand to his Mexican family. Again, the theme of two solitudes and a harsh frontier dominated. To get to the intellectual, reflective side of Jones, though, requires some tolerance for his curmudgeonly terseness.

Talking on behalf for his cast and crew, or perhaps just himself, Jones speaks in the first person plural.

New York director Abel Ferrara’s lurid and experimental Welcome to New York is a barely fictionalized account of the sexual-assault trial of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International Money Fund chief and presumed French presidential candidate who, in 2011, was charged with attacking a New York hotel maid. The film was something of a Cannes first: an invitation-only video-on-demand screening, on the Carlton beach on Saturday night, timed to the online release of the film in several Europe countries, including France.

Raw in any number of ways, the film opens with a series of highly graphic sexual encounters with the French diplomat and paid escorts, both at home in his Paris office and later in a New York hotel, where the menu de jour for Dominique (played by Gérard Depardieu) and two of his political friends includes escorts, “cialis, cognac and ice cream.” The sexual encounters, while consensual, are shockingly rough. A day later, after saying goodbye to two different prostitutes, Dominique steps out of his morning shower and attempts to force himself on an African immigrant maid who has come to clean his room, and the tone changes abruptly.

Whatever gross titillation the early scenes offer, the script by Chris Zois (best known as Gloria Vanderbilt’s therapist) quickly offers more nuanced indications of Dominique’s lack of awareness border, never more clearly than when he begins interrogating his daughter and her new American fiancé on their sex lives. There’s no question here of his guilt, or his egomaniacal indifference to those he hurts.

But Welcome to New York is also a film of distinct stages, with the middle ground finding a wry humour (reflected in the title) of the portly, pompous Frenchman dealing with the shock of cynical New York cops and the prison guards. The movie’s final sequence is a sustained two-person drama (apparently largely improvised) set in a New York pad, costing $60,000 a month, where Dominique lives under house arrest, while his wealthy wife, Simone (Jacqueline Bisset), both engineers his release while pushing to make him confront his monstrosity. The scenes were shot in the actual townhouse where Dominique Strauss-Kahn and his wife stayed during his trial.

Asked if the Strauss-Kahn family had responded to the film, producer Vincent Maraval said he expected they would pay the seven euros to download it and watch it like everyone else.

© Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
