
This year a whopping 51 students from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani have been selected for the Google Summer of Code (GSoC). These students hail from different BITS Pilani campuses with the largest cohort being selected from the Goa campus (30), followed by Pilani (18) and Hyderabad (3) respectively.

This achievement is a reflection of the niche carved by the students of the institute in the industry with their performance over the years. GSoC statistics published by Google feature BITS Pilani at number 10 on the list of top institutes worldwide (2005-2012).

The Google Summer of Code (GSoC), an annual program, awards students who successfully complete a requested free and open-source software coding project during the summer with a stipend of USD 5500 each. Being a part of GSoC is considered to be very prestigious at the college level given the 'Google' tag and high level of competition and a rigorous selection process.

 "One of the perks of being a student of BITS is that there are so many seniors who have been selected by GSoC that you get a lot of advice," Gaurav Narula, one of the student selected from BITS Pilani K.K Birla Goa Campus said.

Rohan Saxena who is currently pursuing his fourth year at the institute said, "The Google tag definitely helps. It gives me an edge over others in placements."

The Google Summer of Code is a program that gives students all over the world an opportunity to write code for open source projects, and also earn a significant stipend for being part of the program. All students who successfully complete a requested coding project for their mentor organisation over the summer receive stipends from Google. The program is open to students aged 18 or over - the closely related Google Code-In is intended for students under the age of 18.

Rank 1: IIM-B is one of the most important centres of management research with a huge knowledge database.

With the establishment of DU in 1922, it became one of its three original constituent colleges.
