
Swiss-based u-blox (SIX:UBXN) is a leading provider of wireless and positioning semiconductors and modules for the automotive, industrial and consumer markets. Our solutions enable people, vehicles and machines to locate their exact position and wirelessly communicate via voice, text or video. With a broad portfolio of chips, modules and software solutions, u-blox is uniquely positioned to allow OEMs to develop innovative solutions that enable mobility quickly and cost-effectively. With headquarters in Thalwil, Switzerland, u blox is globally present with offices in Europe, Asia and the USA.

connectBlue® is a leading provider of reliable wireless solutions for the last hundreds of meters of connectivity. The robust and high performing products are designed and tested for demanding industrial, medical, measurement / data acquisition and quality assurance applications. Based on Classic Bluetooth, Bluetooth low energy, Wi-Fi (WLAN) and Multiradio solutions, connectBlue develops wireless system-on-modules, wireless ready-to-embed modules as well as wireless ready-to-use Serial / Ethernet Port Adapters and Access Points. The connectBlue products are radio type approved for the European, US, Canadian, Japanese markets as well as are compliant with EMC, Safety and Medical standards, and the Bluetooth qualification program. connectBlue is located in Malmo, Sweden. For more information, please visit www.connectblue.com.

This release contains certain forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements reflect the current views of management and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the u-blox Group to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These include risks related to the success of and demand for the Group's products, the potential for the Group's products to become obsolete, the Group's ability to defend its intellectual property, the Group's ability to develop and commercialize new products in a timely manner, the dynamic and competitive environment in which the Group operates, the regulatory environment, changes in currency exchange rates, the Group's ability to generate revenues and profitability, and the Group's ability to realize its expansion projects in a timely manner. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this report. u-blox is providing the information in this release as of this date and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in it as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

This press release is published in German and English. Should the German translation differ from the English original, the English version is binding.
