
Third-grader Brandon Hernandez raises his hand during class Wednesday at Platteville Elementary School. Platteville's third-graders became the top performing school in the Transitional Colorado Assessment Program tests for Weld County.

Vivian Berens, works on an assignment during class Wednesday at Platteville Elementary School. Platteville was one of the Weld County schools that scored particularly high on the Transitional Colorado Assessment Program.

P LATTEVILLE — Platteville Elementary School Principal Darron Diemert doesn’t ask his teachers to believe he knows what he’s doing. He shows them.

Diemert was referring to how educators in the Valley Re-1 School District have changed the way they teach over the past few years and — as a result — have watched their third-grade reading scores improve gradually into some of the top in the county.

The work started five years ago with higher order lessons and thinking, Dimert said, but two years ago, the biggest difference  began with teachers taking sections from a book and focusing on the complexity of small portions of text instead of the entire book. The process, called “close reading,” allows students to develop strong analytical thinking. Students gain a deeper understanding of not just the text, but the author’s purpose and message so they can communicate and write at a higher level.

Diemert said he took two pages from Mark Twain and spent two weeks dissecting it.

“It’s not that they are just spending time on any text, it has to be a really rich text,” added Mary Meersman, director of professional development, curriculum and assessment.

The idea, which stems from the book “Focus — Elevating the Essentials to Radically Improve Student Learning,” by Mike Schmoker, bases teaching on three elements: “What we teach,” “How we teach,” and “Authentic literacy,” which is purposeful — and usually argumentative — reading, writing and talking.

That focus has paid off. Over the past five years, all three elementary schools have seen their standardized text scores increase. Pete Mirich Elementary School in LaSalle has risen 3.2 percentage points from 64 percent of its students scoring proficient or advanced to 67.2 percent. Platteville Elementary School has increased 11.4 percentage points from 83 percent to 94.4 percent, and Gilcrest Elementary School, which has jumped the most, has risen 34.6 percentage points from 35 percent in 2010 to 69.6 percent this year.

Perhaps more impressive about the jump is the district’s demographics. In most cases, the schools are near or exceed most of the schools in Greeley.

Over the past five years, Pete Mirich has averaged around 55 percent of its students on free and reduced lunches and 31 percent English language learners. Platteville is around 46 percent free and reduced and 28 percent ELL, and Gilcrest is around 55 percent free and reduced with 46 percent ELL.

Tad McDonald, principal of Gilcrest, said the fact the schools don’t look exactly alike shows that “Focus” can work in any situation.

McDonald added the philosophy also works because of the effort put into it by all teachers.

McDonald’s school has gone from being accredited by the Colorado Department of Education as a Turnaround school, the lowest ranking allowed, to a Performance school, the highest ranking, in three years because of the system, he said.

“That says that these things, when focused on and everybody’s on board and working together, have a strong positive effect in both circumstances,” he said using Platteville, which has always performed well but continues to get better, as an example.

Meersman, who is in her first year with the Re-1 district after leading one of the state’s most successful secondary schools at Frontier Academy, said it is how things are managed at all levels.

Even assessments in art, music and physical education use text-based questions, Meersman said. Additionally, the districts commitment to fund all-day kindergarten in all schools, and adding pre-school next year, has been a tremendous help to getting kids the background knowledge they need from an early age so teachers in kindergarten, first and second grade can start students down the right path, Diemert said.

In the end, they all said it’s not about practicing the isolated skills. It’s about putting it all together.

Barbie said it doesn’t happen overnight and the district has been very student focused with a very supportive board of education. “Focus” is just a piece of the whole picture.

Poll ..

The union should hold out for everything it wants.

JBS should stick to its guns and get what it wants.

Both sides should give a little bit to get a deal.

I din't know.
