
FORSYTH – Change is often good, but also can be difficult.

When The Education and Training Center in Hickory Point Mall had to move from the south end of the mall near Bergner's to the north end near the former JCPenney location, it meant losing some space, but it meant losing some clutter and gaining what may be a more convenient location, too.

“I'm hoping we're going to emerge from it with a new look, a new process, and just a new way of transitioning students,” Executive Director Rocki Wilkerson said.

The bus stops at the mall entrance near the center's front door and that door opens onto the open floor space, allowing for events like the career fair held on April 30.

Like most programs dependent on grants and state funds, the Adult Education Department of Decatur's public schools is doing more with less these days. And the key word in all they do, Wilkerson said, is “transition.” The department takes a person, wherever they are, and works with them to build the skills necessary to move up in education level and build a bridge to training for a job or for post-secondary education which will lead to a job. The goal is always self-sufficiency.

That's what Brandi Peek is aiming for. When Peek learned that she'd have to repeat her senior year to graduate high school, she dropped out and earned a GED last year. She enrolled in the certified nurse assistant class, but wasn't ready for it. She moved to the introduction to health care class and said she'll be ready next time for the challenges of the CNA class.

The new GED test is all online, and requires higher skill levels than previous tests, said Karen Rivera, one of the teachers who prepares students to take that test.

The cost is higher, too. Students not only have to master the subject areas, but navigating the computer, all while being timed.

At the old location, when CNA teachers wanted to cover infection control and handwashing, they had to take the whole class to the mall bathrooms, which were not set up the same way a health care facility would be. One of the perks of the new location is three sinks in the back which are set up properly, where the teachers can drill students in that first rule of health care providers.

LaSonia Brown's mother has been a nurse assistant for years and Brown works as a caregiver. She knew what she wanted to do and found help at the Education and Training Center. She's planning to continue her studies with the hope of eventually becoming a registered nurse.

“(The class) is a lot more challenging than I thought it would be,” Brown said with a laugh.

The rules for certified nurse assistant training have changed, and now the ratio of students to teacher is 10 to 1 during the clinical phase – on the job practice – while it's 15 to 1 in the classroom and lab, said instructor Kimberly Daily.

A new class on food handling and hospitality careers partners the Education and Training Center with Good Samaritan Inn and the hope is that students will be able to go from the class straight to work or into culinary arts classes, said instructor Lynnette Mensah. Students can earn the state-required food handlers' certification and get a five-hour internship at Good Samaritan, which is offering a culinary arts program.

“We're bridging people into culinary arts from here and other hospitality industry jobs,” Mensah said.

Copyright 2014 Herald-Review.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
