
Members of the Cloister Future Farmers of America relax after a morning of competition during the spring regional career development event May 1. Pictured back row, from left: Cassie Vaitl, Brittany Keener and Danielle Oberholtzer. Front row: Philip Hinerdeer, Alicia Getz and Shane Johnson.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 9:59 am | Updated: 11:08 am, Mon May 19, 2014.

The Cloister Future Farmers of America chapter had plenty of reasons to smile following the Spring Regional Career development events held on May 1.

The six Cloister FFA members from Ephrata Area School District were registered in three different fields  —wildlife, vet skills, and food science —and came home with several honors.

The event, which hosts local and regional chapters, was to be held in Manheim, but rain storms and local flooding had the contests moved to the the Lebanon Fair Grounds.

In the wildlife category, which required contestants to identify species of birds, mammals, and plants as well as a familiarization of wildlife signs, bird calls, ecology and wildlife management principles, Shane Johnson took third in the county and fifth in the region.

Following Johnson was Brittany Keener and Phillip Hinerdeer.

Keener took fourth place in the county and sixth in the region and Hinerdeer took 12th in the county and 32nd in the region.

Keener and Johnson are both enrolled in a wildlife and natural resources class and Hinderdeer is in an animal science class.

All three attended several after-school study sessions with an environmental education specialist at Middle Creek Wildlife Management Area.

The vet skills contest tested participants on their abilities to identify breeds, equipment, and common diseases as well as to perform dosage calculations, draw medication in a syringe and demonstrate proper knowledge of muzzling a dog.

Danielle Oberholtzer placed 13th in the county and 32nd in the region while Alicia Getz placed 27th in the county and 73rd region in the vet skills contest.

Both are enrolled in an animal science course and also attend after-school study sessions at the Conestoga Animal Hospital.

Identifying food safety violations, flavors, and scents, properly categorizing customer complaints and performing triangle tests were all part of the food science contest.

Cassie Vaitl was the only Lancaster County contestant and placed 32nd in the region in that event.

Vaitl is enrolled in a course where she is learning to grow her own vegetables and herbs to use for cooking. She says she would like to pursue a career in food science in the future.

The Cloister chapter expects to  have all of the students compete in their respective fields again at the state convention at Penn State University from June 10-12.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 9:59 am. Updated: 11:08 am.
