
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A Sparks Middle School students walks past the school sign after the bell rings for students to go home on May, 12, 2014.

Sparks Middle School's intercom did not work  Oct. 21, 2013 when 12-year-old student Jose Reyes shot and killed a teacher and himself and injured two students, recently released documents show.

Of the Washoe County School District's 93 schools, 35 have intercom systems that are listed as "expired" and 25 are listed as "expired but serviceable."

That is according to documents the district released during its campaign last year for Assembly Bill 46, a failed property and sales tax bill for school repairs.

"Several of the school's public address systems are in the 'expired' or 'expired but serviceable' category," said  Pete Etchart, chief operations officer for the district. "Being in these categories does not mean that the systems do not operate."

He said it means they are no longer economically serviceable and need to be replaced.

"Many of these older systems no longer have parts available for repair," he said.

Included on the list of schools with expired systems are 11 of the district's 14 middle schools, including at Sparks Middle School.

Documents related to the shooting were released last week after a seven-month Sparks police investigation.

Police interviewed then-Sparks Middle School Principal Stacey Cooper after the shooting. She told police after hearing students yelling about a shooter, she attempted to announce a "Code Red" over the intercom.

A "Code Red" is used to warn of an intruder or active shooter and alert students and staff to remain in a classroom or secure area, usually behind a locked door.

"Cooper said that it was first day back to school from fall break and it was not uncommon for the intercom to be nonfunctional after school was out for some time," the report said.

At Sparks Middle School, Vice Principal Jerry Endres also attempted to use the school's intercom after running from Reyes and getting inside the school.

The district said it did learn that the intercom at Sparks Middle School was intermittent but addressed the problem the day after the Oct. 21 incident.

"Our equipment repair shop has received six work orders related to the intercom system this year (at Sparks Middle School)," Facilities Management Officer Charlie Hoppe said.

The district has received 118 work orders for intercom systems this school year and receives an average of 2.5 calls a week.

The majority of requests are not related to a complete intercom failure but involve issues such as a classroom speaker or needing to replace batteries.

For parts no longer available, the district uses old parts from previously replaced systems.

While Randy Drake, the chief general counsel for the school district, said the intercom wasn't a factor in the Sparks Middle School shooting,  security experts say intercoms play a critical role.

"They are used on a daily basis and are the primary means for emergency notifications such as fire, evacuations, shelter in place and lockdowns," said Tracy Moore, the head of emergency management for the district.

National school safety expert Ken Trump said an intercom system is one of the most important tools in a school's emergency plan.

Trump is president of Cleveland-based National School Safety and Security Services.

He said school safety measures often include fortifying entrances and upgrading hardware for doors, but a communication gap is often the most critical component in saving lives.

"In general across the country, PA systems are dinosaurs and although they may be at the top of wish lists, there is no funding," Trump said.

Moore agreed.

"You have to make do with what you have and sometimes do things like you would before electricity," he said.

"I would love to see in every school surveillance systems with access codes with integrated fire alarms and a mass notification system," Moore said. The system integrates the fire alarm with the intercom system.

Moore said since the Sparks Middle School shooting, the district is better training staff.

At many schools, intercom systems can be accessed through one or two dedicated phones that don't rely on the entire system to work.

"We need to get staff comfortable knowing those phones are there as a backup," he said.

He said in during stressful situations people forget about this type of backup to get a message out over an intercom system.

The district said it is now requiring all facility coordinators to test systems 15 minutes before the start of school every day.

The district also said replacing systems are a priority but because of the failure of AB46 before the Washoe County Commission resources are limited.

Alice Smith, Taylor and Westergard elementary schools are scheduled to receive new intercom systems. Seven other school sites are being evaluated and will be prioritized as part of next year's capital renewal plans.

On the district's capital renewal plans, replacing an intercom costs between $58,000 and $178,000.

• Washoe County School District officials presented several capital needs during their testimony last year in favor of Assembly Bill 46, a measure that would have increased property and sales taxes to pay for school repairs.

• As part of that testimony, presented before the Washoe County Commission that ultimately killed the measure, district officials pointed out several school intercom systems that were "expired" or "expired but serviceable."

• Among those schools with an expired system was Sparks Middle School, where the intercom system did not work the morning of a deadly school shooting on Oct. 21.
