
The cancer drug that almost wasn't After years in drug development limbo, a compound that interrupts cell division has revitalized a troubled area of cancer research.

Call to action. Minister Johanna Wanka has given little indication so far about her plans for German science.

BERLIN—A political impasse may cause "irreparable harm to the German research system," if it isn't solved soon, the heads of three German science organizations warned today. Politicians need to start making some important decisions in the weeks ahead, according to the rare joint statement by Peter Strohschneider of the German Research Foundation, Horst Hippler of the German Rectors’ Conference, and Wolfgang Marquardt of the German Council of Science and Humanities. "Otherwise the research system and the education of more than 2.5 million students in Germany will suffer further and greater harm … that cannot be undone,” the trio wrote in their letter (in German), released at a press conference here.

But most of these programs are set to run out in the coming years, and German scientists are anxious about the future. Federal research minister Annette Schavan stepped down in February last year after losing her Ph.D. in a plagiarism scandal; her successor, mathematician Johanna Wanka, has given little indication so far of what her plans are.

One problem is that the German constitution forbids the federal government from providing long-term funding to universities; that responsibility lies with the 16 states. In their appeal today, the three science managers called for a constitutional change to make long-term federal funding possible. Wilhelm Krull, secretary-general of the Volkswagen Foundation, a large private research funder in Germany, says that big investments are needed to update the infrastructure in German universities. “Many buildings are literally crumbling,” he says, and more money will be needed for educating the rising number of students and for digitalization. “If the states have to pay for all that, some of it just won’t happen,” Krull says.

Wanka agrees. In a recent interview, she told ScienceInsider that "changing the constitution is one of my major goals for this legislative period,” but acknowledged it would be difficult to achieve because state politicians resent federal encroachment on their turf.

There is also disagreement about how the €6 billion for education and research that the coalition has promised to the states will be used. While the states want the money without any strings attached, federal politicians prefer to earmark some of it for universities. Indeed, a "substantial part” of the money should go to universities, which have fallen behind in basic research, the authors of today's appeal say. They also want the programs started under Schavan, including the Excellence Initiative, to be continued in some form.

*Clarification, 20 May, 8:58 a.m.: Angela Merkel is best referred to as a physicist, not a chemist, as previously reported. She has a Ph.D. in physical chemistry, but studied physics.
