
The sun shone down on a historic parade to mark the disbandment of a Preston-based medical squadron.

Troops from the Force Support Squadron, 2 Medical Regiment, based at Fulwood Barracks stood in silence as a bugle was played and the Royal Army Medical Corp flag was lowered.

The squadron is being disbanded in its 100th year and in the coming weeks soldiers will bid farewell to Fulwood Barracks, where they have been based since 1993.

The disbandment is part of the reorganisation of the Army and most of the soldiers will join other squadrons within their parent regiment, 2 Medical Regiment, at its base in Hohne, Germany.

Friday’s parade also saw the 50-strong squadron welcome back 20 of their soldiers who have been serving in Afghanistan on a six-month operational tour.

The Commanding Officer 2 Medical Regiment, Lt Col Graham Johnson, said: “The British Army is based on history and tradition and I think it’s only right and proper this historic day is marked appropriately.

Lt Col Johnson also thanked the people of Preston for the support shown to the troops based at the barracks.

Cpl Tracey Morrison, 25, from Wigan, has been based in Preston since 2011 and currently lives in the barracks with her husband and three children.

She returned from Afghanistan last month and is now preparing to move from the Preston base to Hereford.

Cpl David Mills, 30, from Chorley, has enjoyed being based at Preston because it is so close to home. The communications specialist will soon move to Catterick, the same place where he started out.

“It’s been good being nearer to home – I’ve been able to nip home for Sunday lunch!

Meanwhile Warrant Officer Steven Pye, 39, from Longridge, will be staying at Fulwood Barracks preparing for the next regiment to make the barracks its home.

The squadron was first formed as 5 Field Ambulance in Aldershot 1914 and was present at the battles of the Somme, Arras, Cambrai and the Hindenburg Line before being disbanded at the end of the First World War.

At the outbreak of the Second World War 5 Field Ambulance was reformed at the Connaught Hospital, Aldershot and served in Arles, Marshiennes, India, Rangoon and Japan.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Lancashire Evening Post provides news, events and sport features from the Preston area. For the best up to date information relating to Preston and the surrounding areas visit us at Lancashire Evening Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Lancashire Evening Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
