
Stacey Askey, partner Antony Taylor and children Mia, three, and Cory, five.

THE family of a three-year-old girl fighting against the odds to beat a brain tumour are trying to raise £20,000 to take her to America.

Doctors have given Mia Taylor, from Clifton, just a five per cent chance of surviving after attempts to treat her in the QMC have failed.

But her parents Stacey Askey and Antony Taylor are refusing to give up hope. They have sent her notes to two hospitals in America – John Hopkins Hospital, in Maryland, and Boston Children’s Hospital – hoping doctors there may be able to help.

Stacey, 23, who is also mum to five-year-old Cory, said: “The outlook for Mia’s tumour in very young children is poor, with few children surviving treatment.

“When Mia was first diagnosed they told us there was only a five per cent chance Mia would survive as the tumour is very deep in the brain.

“But Antony and I aren’t about to just give up on our little girl, so we have asked for second opinions in America.

The £20,000 is an estimate of how much it will cost for potential treatment, accommodation and flights to the States.

If none of the hospitals will agree to take Mia’s case on, the money will be used for a family trip to Disneyland and the rest given to charity.

Jacky Fleming, from Clifton, has already started fundraising.

Professor Richard Grundy, paediatric oncology consultant at Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, said: “Mia has what is known as a diffuse high-grade glioma, which is located in her mid-brain.

“This is the really important part of the brain that controls all of the everyday processes, and it is surgically impossible to operate on that part.

“Mia has had radiotherapy, which she responded well to, and chemotherapy, which she had a reasonable response to, but the tumour has significantly progressed in the last two months and sadly her prognosis is poor.

WITH her sparkling blue eyes and cute blonde curls, three-year-old Mia Taylor is her mummy's little princess.

But behind her gorgeous smile lies a heartbreaking fact that threatens to tear her family apart.

Mia has an aggressive brain tumour that could kill her at any moment.

Her desperate mum, Stacey Askey, is urging people to help raise £20,000 for an operation in America that could save her daughter's life.

Stacey, of Farnborough Road, in Clifton, said: "Mia is currently fighting this tumour as hard as she can.

"She knows she has a poorly head but she's never let her illness get her down.

"She always has a smile on her face, no matter what. She's so brave.

"Please help us to help save our baby girl – even a little will help. We just can't imagine life without Mia in it."

The family's heartbreak began in September last year when Mia started to suffer weakness on the right side of her body.

Stacey, 22, and partner AntonyTaylor, 24, rushed Mia to A&E at the Queen's Medical Centre and she was taken for an MRI scan.

The news was worse than the couple could ever have expected. Mia was diagnosed with a rare brain tumour known as gliomatosis cerebri.

Stacey and Antony were told there was just a five per cent chance of Mia surviving.

"Our whole world just turned upside-down," said Stacey, who is also mum to Cory, five.

"We just didn't have a clue what to do or how to cope, knowing one day we could lose our little girl.

"From that day, our whole lives changed."

It was a devastating blow – especially as Mia had been a perfectly healthy toddler up until then.

But the family pulled together as she began a five-week course of radiotherapy.

Following the treatment, Stacey and Antony were delighted to be told the tumour had stopped growing.

Mia started walking again and was beginning to get back to her normal self.

But a routine scan in January this year revealed that another tumour had started to grow. A three-month course of chemotherapy failed to shrink it – and doctors warned the family the outlook was very grave.

Stacey added: "We were told there wasn't a lot more Queen's Medical Centre could do for Mia but the doctors wanted to try her on a much stronger chemotherapy drug, mostly used in adults and older children.

"We are hoping this drug will shrink the tumour so we can maybe talk about operating."

But with the tumour wrapped around Mia's brainstem, the couple have been told it is unlikely doctors at QMC would be prepared to carry out major surgery on such a young child.

Determined not to let the illness beat them, Stacey and Antony have sent Mia's notes to several hospitals in America.

They hope doctors there will agree to take on the case and perform an operation that could save her life.

Antony said: "I did some research on clinics in America and contacted a couple of them, including the John Hopkins Hospital [in Maryland].

"We've heard the things they can do over there are quite amazing, so we're really hoping they'll be able to help us.

"Seeing Mia in and out of hospital has been devastating, especially when we can't do anything to take the pain away."

Although the family have not yet found out whether treatment in the States is possible, they do not want to lose any time, so have already begun fundraising to cover the trip.

They estimate that £20,000 would help pay for treatment, accommodation and flights, and are holding fundraising events with family and friends.

Donations on Mia's fundraising website have already  raised more than £2,500.

On May 31 a "walk for Mia" event will be held at Colwick Park from 10am. Families are asked to donate £5.

If doctors in the US are unable to help Mia, the money will go a charity, yet to be decided.

Stacey, who had been training to become a midwife before Mia fell ill, added: "Seeing our daughter forever being pricked with needles and being put to sleep is more heartbreaking every time, knowing there's nothing we can do to protect her.

"We never thought we would have to go through this and see things no parent would ever want their child to go through. We just have to put a brave face on every day and think positive.

"Without the support of friends and family, we wouldn't know where to turn.

"Our hearts are broken but we believe Mia will get through this one day soon."

To donate to Mia's fund, visit www.gofundme.com/8heeqk.

Hi, Set up a 'crowd funding' site, you'd be amazed at the generosity of people.  Best of luck.
