
MANILA, Philippines - The Department of Education on Monday kicked off its annual school maintenance week, Brigada Eskwela, in various schools nationwide.

Brigada brings together school officials, parents, students, and private organizations in an effort to clean and repair schools in time for enrollment the following week and the start of classes on June 2.

For his part, DepEd Undersecretary for Partnerships and Linkages Mario Deriquito said that this year's Brigada aims to maintain disaster preparedness principles in schools.

The DepEd reported that the Brigada program in Eastern Visayas, which has been recovering from the effects of supertyphoon Yolanda in November, began with the Korean government turning over several classrooms and an office building to DepEd.

In cooperation with the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the Republic of Korea Army - Araw Contingent had rehabilitated 91 school rooms in 10 schools from the municipalities of Palo, Tanauan, and Tolosa.

The Korean Army has also restored the National Educators Academy of the Philippines-Regional Educational Learning Center facility in Region VIII.

Meanwhile, Metro Manila kicked off its Brigada program with a motorcade from the National Capital Region office to Dalandanan National High School in Valenzuela.

Undersecretary for Regional Operations Rizalino Rivera  underscored that the goal of DepEd is to make the schools disaster-ready and resilient.

"Ang kaligtasan ng mga mag-aaral at mga guro ay dapat nating bigyan ng prayoridad (We should give priority to the safety of our learners and teachers)," Rivera said.

"Lahat kayong narito ay makakatulong para mas maging ligtas ang paaralan ng mga batang Pilipino," he added.

Volunteers from the government, both local and national, the private sector, civil society organizations and international aid organizations participated in the first day of Brigada Eskwela. More than 500 volunteers attended the kickoff in NCR.

Part of the opening program was the simulation of fire and earthquake drills. DepEd officials, students, and teachers participated in these activities.
