
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to globegazette.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

MASON CITY | Parent Erica True again pleaded for board members to reconsider cutting Kelli Ciavarelli, her son Ethan’s kindergarten teacher at Harding Elementary.

Cutting teachers is “unacceptable,” she added.

Ciavarelli’s termination has not been finalized by the board.

Thirteen certified teachers slated for reduction have requested private hearings with the board. Outcomes of those hearings have not been made public.

Resident Janice Easley questioned board policy, specifically open forum rules.

Speakers must submit requests in writing prior to the meeting and are only allowed five minutes to talk.

Board members do not respond to comments.

MASON CITY | Mason City Community Schools will be raising breakfast and lunch prices 20 cents in 2014-15.

The state has recommended raises meal prices 10 cents the past three years, according to CFO Ramona Jeffrey, but the district has also faced increased food costs and a $66,000 shortfall in its school nutrition fund the previous year.

• Breakfast: $1.50 K-6; $1.75 7-12.

• Lunch: $2.50 K-6; $2.75 7-12 and $3.50 adult.

Extra milk will remain at 45 cents.

Student fees will also remain the same in 2014-15, except for the high school parking permit, which will now be $10 instead of $5.

Approved the 2014-15 school calendar to remain in days instead of hours. Schools are now allowed to count a year’s instructional time in 1,080 hours or 180 days, but Assistant Superintendent of Administrative Services Hal Minear said the calendar needs to remain in days unless teacher contracts are changed. The board also approved requesting an early start waiver to begin the 2014-15 school year on Aug. 27.

Approved a roof replacement project for Hoover and Harding Elementary schools. Facilities Supervisor Todd Huff said he has recently seen a lot of deterioration on both 15-year-old roofs. Huff recommended a perimeter rebuild instead of pulling off all materials, which he said is more cost effective and will ensure another 12-14 years of use. Bids will likely be awarded during the June 16 board meeting.

Tabled a request from the Mason City High School Choir to travel to New York for five days in March 2015 to perform at Carnegie Hall. Board member Scott Warren said it would be preferable for students to travel during spring break, instead of while school is in session.

Accepted resignations from Sarah Leichsenring, a social studies teacher at Mason City High School, and two classified food service personnel.

Accepted an Alliant Energy Energy Summit award from Jim Collins, key energy account manager. The award was for natural gas savings for the redesigned middle and high school campus.

Heard results of a recent drill at the FEMA Safe Room. All middle and high school students were evacuated in 9 minutes, according to Cerro Gordo County Emergency Management Coordinator Steve O’Neil. There is also space for individuals in transit to shelter during a severe storm, since doors open when tornado sirens sound. O’Neil asked to purchase three medical/disaster kits for the room, which can be used as a command center for first responders.

Received a report from Lora Jenson, director of food and nutrition services, regarding a nutrition site visit. Jenson said auditors were impressed by the breakfast cart and lunch set-up at the high school, where fresh fruits and vegetables are available daily.

Copyright 2014 Mason City Globe Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Keep it clean. Avoid language that is obscene, vulgar, lewd or sexually-oriented. If you can't control yourself, don't post it.

Don't threaten to hurt or kill anyone.

Be truthful.Don't lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any other sort of -ism that degrades another person. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK, and forgive people their spelling errors.

Let us know if it's getting out of hand. If you see offensive comments, don't quote or respond to them. Please use the "Report Abuse" button to bring it to our attention.

Stay focused, and ask questions. Keep on the story's topic.

Refer a friend and receive 50% off monthly services!  Call today!

 Be sure and stop in today!

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
