
Please enter your username or email address provided during registration. If your username or email address exist in our database, you will receive instructions how to reset your password.

Patients in Rampton Hospital, a secure psychiatric unit in Nottinghamshire, have reported that the single most important factor affecting their recovery was the support and commitment of their therapist.

A new study by researchers Phil Willmot and Professor Mary McMurran at the Institute of Mental Health , a joint venture between The University of Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Healthcare , explored the changes during treatment of male inpatients diagnosed with severe personality disorders.

The research is published in the journal Legal and Criminal Psychology and will be a valuable contribution to wider ongoing enhancements to the treatment of long-term detained psychiatric patients with a personality disorder. The study is unique in that it was carried out in the form of detailed interviews and questionnaires filled in by the patients themselves. It shows how the behaviour of therapists is vitally important throughout treatment and by the final stage of therapy patients begin to value interactions with other staff as also important.

Fifty patients, all with a diagnosis of personality disorder and convicted of serious violent or sexual offences, were asked about what they thought were the most important factors that had helped them to change in hospital.

Patients in the early stages of treatment rated the influence of their therapist as the most important factor. For patients in the later stages of treatment, relationships with nursing staff and the content of therapy became more important, but the relationship with the therapist remained important throughout the treatment process.

This research provides valuable evidence about the process by which people with personality disorder can be helped in their recovery. Future work in this area aims to further explore the process of change and improve the effectiveness of treatments for severe personality disorders.

The study ‘An attachment-based model of therapeutic change processes in the treatment of personality disorder among male forensic inpatients’ by Phil Willmot and Mary McMurran is published on Monday 19 May 2014 in The British Psychological Society’s journal Legal and Criminal Psychology .

Notes to editors: The University of Nottingham has 43,000 students and is ‘the nearest Britain has to a truly global university, with campuses in China and Malaysia modelled on a headquarters that is among the most attractive in Britain’ (Times Good University Guide 2014). It is also the most popular university among graduate employers , the world’s greenest university , and winner of the Times Higher Education Award for ‘Outstanding Contribution to Sustainable Development’. It is ranked in the World's Top 75 universities by the QS World University Rankings.
