
Ed Miliband has pledged that the national minimum wage would rise substantially, being linked in law to average earnings, if Labour returned to power.

The Labour leader, who recently has taken on former Obama adviser David Axelrod as an election strategist, said he would follow the US president by making increasing workers' pay a "basic principle" of his government.

Miliband also warned that the UK was one of the worst countries in the developing world for low-paid workers, telling the BBC Radio 4 Today Programme: "The bigger picture is this - we are one of the worst countries among developed countries when it comes to low pay. We are doing badly as a country.

"It's true that the jobs that were 50p or £1 an hour that I remember from the 1980s aren't there any more but we have much, much further to go.

"It's a basic principle for the next Labour government that people who are going out to work and putting in the hours should be able to get a decent return.

"It's also saying that for the next Labour government the route to social justice and tackling poverty will not be based on higher welfare spending but will be based on giving people a proper reward in work."

He added: "Here's the interesting thing - every country around the world is seeking to address this question, whether it's President Obama in the United States, or other countries, they are facing up to this question."

Labour is publishing a report commissioned by Miliband from Alan Buckle, the former deputy chairman of KPMG International, with proposals to overhaul the Low Pay Commission.

Buckle said: "Making work pay, through an economy that supports a higher skilled, better paid and more productive workforce, is the key to cutting the social security bill and thereby improving government finances."

Speaking at the launch of his party's review of the minimum wage, Miliband will say: "It is time to raise our sights again because Britain can do better than this. The next Labour government will restore the link between hard work and building a decent life for your family.

"A Labour government will establish a clear link between the level of the minimum wage and the scale of wages paid to other workers in our economy. We will say workers on the minimum wage must never be left behind because those who work hard to create our nation's wealth should share in it."

Katja Hall, chief policy director of the Confederation of British Industry, warned politicians against setting wages, warning: "I think we need to recognise that the system we have at the moment has been really successful and that system involves the setting of the minimum wage by an independent Low Pay Commission.

"They have done a really good job and we think it's much better the job is left to them rather than given to politicians."

Speaking in 1997, the Tory MP said it "will negatively affect, not hundreds of thousands but millions of people" depending on how high the minimum wage was set.  Now he's in charge of the welfare budget as work and pensions secretary.

William Hague, speaking as leader of the Opposition, ridiculed the minimum wage, saying in 1997 it "would be either so low as to be utterly irrelevant or so high that it would price people out of work."

Then Tory backbencher Michael Fallon warned in 1997 that the minimum wage "will add costs to British business".  Now business minister, Fallon may not be the greatest fan of increasing it yet further.

Ken Clarke was a minimum wage sceptic, predicting in 1995 as Chancellor that it would "cost thousands of jobs and would add billions of pounds to businesses' costs".  Now he's a roving "minister without portfolio" in government.

As employment minister in 1994, Michael Portillo warned that a minimum wage could leave people out of work with "no job at all".

John Major was hardly a fan of the minimum wage, frequently barracking Tony Blair at Prime Ministers' Questions for backing a proposal that "would cost jobs".

Then deputy prime minister Michael Heseltine mocked the idea back in 1996, saying: "Any fool knows that a minimum wage costs jobs."

Michael Fabricant, former Tory whip and now legendary tweeter, warned in 1996 that a minimum wage would "price our workers out of their jobs".

Tory MP Alan Duncan, who now serves as international development minister, said in 1994 the minimum wage "would destroy jobs" and "should best be dropped altogether".

Then prisons minister Add Widdecombe pulled no punches in delivering a stark prediction in 1994 about the minimum wage.  "If minimum wage legislation were ever to be introduced in Britain we would probably lose up to 2 million jobs," she said.

As recently as 2011, Tory MP Philip Davies said it should be allowed for disabled people to be paid less than the minimum wage, arguing it was a "hindrance" to jobseekers.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
