
Ukraine has recently been called the most corrupt country in Eastern Europe by Transparency International, which placed it in the lowest category possible for corruption. It is believed that half of the economic activity happens in the black market, generating no tax revenue. The International Monetary Fund blames weak governance and resistance from vested interests for the failure of Ukraine's previous two IMF aid programs.

As part of the current bailout deal the fund demanded the government to complete a study of the laws and anti-corruption framework in order to trace the laws' impact on the judicial system, tax collection and the business climate.

Still, most analysts are rather skeptical about what could be done in Ukraine to tackle issues like corruption in the nearest future. Lars Christensen, Chief Analyst and Head of Emerging Markets Research at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, told radio VR institutional reforms are a major priority for Ukraine’s government.

“I think it’s extremely important that in terms of ensuring stable high growth in Ukraine we need to see some kind of institutional improvements that do something about Ukraine’s fundamental problems like very high level of corruption, ensure the rule of law, ensure the protection of private property… Unfortunately, it is very hard to see any policy-makers, no matter whether we talk about the former regime or the present regime that are able or would be able to do anything about this in the short run,” Lars Christensen said.

In the past ten years no government, either Blue or Orange, has actually attempted to even begin the process of building up new institutions of the functioning government. Oleg Kouzmin, a Moscow-based economist at Renaissance Capital, says he sees no one among top officials who could make broad-based and intelligent decisions so badly needed now.

“Unfortunately Ukraine top economic officials lack some practical experience of implementing policy during these tough times, so this would quite a difficult task for them,” Oleg Kouzmin said.

All rights reserved.
