
New history A-level to cover Islam and Africa: Examiners propose range of topics aimed at broadening lessons beyond 'Hitler and the Henrys'

Teenagers will study African kingdoms and the rise of Islam as part of a new history A-level aimed at broadening lessons beyond 'Hitler and the Henrys'.

Examiners yesterday proposed a range of extra topics to be added to history A-levels under Coalition reforms aimed at making public exams more rigorous.

They include the rise of the Islam between 550 and 750, African kingdoms between 1400 and 1800, Genghis Khan, the Arab Spring, Chinese rulers from 1839 to 1989 and the Mughal Empire in India.

The new syllabus has been drawn up in response to complaints that school history has been dominated by the Second World War and the Tudors.

But the changes may prove controversial among those who advocate a strong focus on British history. Mr Gove himself has stressed the importance of teaching British history, declaring in the Commons history lessons must ensure 'we can celebrate the distinguished role of these islands in the history of the world, from the role of the Royal Navy in putting down the slave trade, to the way in which, since 1688, this nation has been a beacon for liberty that others have sought to emulate'.

The new-look A-level has been developed by the OCR exam board - the same board which infuriated the Department for Education with plans earlier this month to include Russell Brand and rapper Dizzee Rascal in an English syllabus.

The planned new history A-level will also include new British history topics including a study of King Alfred and 'the making of England 871 to 1016'.

British history will account for 25 per cent of the marks in the new qualification - the same proportion as currently.

Professor Peter Mandler, President of the Royal Historical Society, said it was important to broaden school history.

'The aspect of recent reforms to GCSE and A-Level most widely greeted with approval by academic historians has been the push to broaden the curriculum beyond the 20th century,' he said.

'History tells us not so much about who we are as about who we have been and what we might yet be. We welcome efforts by the examination boards to bring recent academic research on hitherto under-explored histories within reach of school pupils.

'It is particularly important not to tell the history of the non-Western world solely through its contact with the West.'

The new A-level – which will need to be submitted to exams watchdog Ofqual for approval - will be first taught in schools in September 2015.

Leading universities have been overseeing the development of syllabuses and recommended that a 200-year sweep of history is studied instead of 100. OCR said its course would cover about 1,700 years.

Some 58 topics covering British and international history are already available; a further 10 are now being added. Mike Goddard, OCR Head of History, commented: 'School history has been criticised, sometimes unfairly, for being too repetitive and for having a 20th century, Western focus.

'Hitler and the Henrys can dominate. Universities tell us they want incoming students to have greater breadth of knowledge. It's vital that schools and colleges have an opportunity to deliver, for example, the history of pre-colonial, non-western civilisations, alongside British history.

'OCR's new African Kingdoms c 1400 - 1800 topic for example, developed with help from experts in higher education, will give students, for the first time, the chance to discover the economic and political power of four pre-colonial kingdoms, which had far-reaching global trade and diplomatic connections.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
