
In a nutshell, I tried to give an entertaining introduction to planetary science, light on math and heavy on pretty pictures with explanations, as well as in the last couple lectures covering the broader universe (stars, galaxies, Big Bang, etc.). The class, taught in participation with the distance learning experts at CSUDH, was offered for college credit to those high school juniors and seniors in their Young Scholar program . Anyone who watches all the lectures can now earn a Certificate of Achievement to download from The Planetary Society.

I had fun teaching the class, and hope you all have fun watching and learning. Special thanks those I worked with directly at CSUDH: Warren Ashley, whom we all miss and who was behind the creation of the course, Van Bridgeman, Joy Jones, Steven Williams, and Calvin Ko, and students Alana McKinney, Maria Rosales, Zanaeya Fitts, Mario Briones, and Estela Delgado.  Thanks also to Mark Hilverda and Brandon Schoelz from The Planetary Society for their help.

The Society has come a long way since I was a charter member under Carl Sagan. Congrats!

Wow I must say this site lets me stay in that place we were all in at 10 years old, I still ooh and aww at the progress of science. I was always bad at math but now I'm taking on the challenge and learning Algebra! I love this site.

Man, this course was really, really, really, great as opposed to others which are just really great.  I hope you can do others and expand on some of the topics, esp. the expansion of the universe!

Richardo: about half your answers were wrong, and to get the certificate requires at least 12 out of 13 to be correct. As a reminder, the answers on the quiz have to be the "certificate Random Space Fact" as mentioned in each lecture.  To quote from the quiz page to hopefully give more clarification:  "a Random Space Fact (RSF) is given in each class designed to be “the” RSF that users will have to recognize later to get the certificate. The following is a multiple choice quiz. Enter your information then select the "certificate Random Space Fact" from each lecture. You must get at least 12 out of 13 correct to pass the quiz and receive a certificate to download.  Note: even the “incorrect” choices below are valid scientific facts, but are not those identified as the certificate facts in the classes."  Hope that clarifies things.

You must be logged in to submit a comment. Log in now.

Our Curiosity Knows No Bounds!

Become a member of The Planetary Society and together we will create the future of space exploration.

Continue the conversation with our online community!
