
Lagos - The Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) Computer Based Test (CBT), conducted by JAMB weekend was hitch-free at the Federal College of Education FCE (Technical), Akoka, Lagos.

The centre commenced biometrics screening from 7 a.m. to 8:30am and it took less than one minute to screen each candidate.

The centre provided three halls for the examination, the first hall started at 8:30 a.m., the second commenced at 9 a.m. while the third started at 9:20 a.m.

The examination lasted for three and half hours.

Candidates were logged out automatically by the system at the expiration of their time and the examination was concluded at about 12:30 p.m.

A staff of JAMB, Mr Ajetunmobi Olalekan, told journalists that 197 candidates sat for the examination at the centre.

According to him, the centre will accommodate 5,000 candidates for the two weeks that it is scheduled to hold,” he said.

Olalekan said that facilities at the college for the conduct of the CBT examination had been improved compared to previous year.

“There were hitches at this centre, such as power supply and system failure in the previous year but it has been addressed.

Olalekan said that only few computers encountered system failures but that they were fixed immediately.

A candidate, Michael Adeniji, said that he experienced system failure as his computer was logging off but that it was fixed immediately.

Another candidate, Ramota Muritala, said the examination was smooth and successful as the system functioned accurately.

Meanwhile, two persons were apprehended at the JAMB Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination at the Yaba College of Technology Centre for alleged impersonation.

The Team Leader Supervising the centre, Mrs. Ebere Okeke, told newsmen that the suspects were apprehended during biometric verification screening.

Okeke said that one of the suspects presented himself as a candidate at the centre but that his thumb print and picture did not correspond with the information on JAMB registration data.

“The original candidate is Rasaq Sheu with registration number 47288350GJ and examination number C07501029, while the impersonator is Salako Olatunji, a 20-year-old tutor in a private school in Ogun State.

Okeke, who is an Assistant Director in JAMB, told journalists that the original owner of the examination stood somewhere watching the impersonator but when problem started he turned himself in for questioning.

“The NCDSC will handle the case and transfer it to the police,’’ she said.

Olatunji told journalists that he was assisting his friend to gain admission into the university because he gave him 160 dollars to pay for his U.S. Visa fee.

However, the duo was handcuffed and whisked way by policemen from the Sabo Police Station.
