
Eastern European states are nervous about Russia after it annexed Ukraine's Crimea region and massed 40,000 troops on Ukraine's borders.

The United States has sent 600 soldiers to the three Baltic countries - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - and Poland to take part in exercises to bolster NATO's presence in eastern Europe.

"Russia's ability and intention to undertake significant military action without much forewarning poses a far-reaching threat for the maintenance of security and stability in the European-Atlantic area," the weekly magazine said, citing a NATO defense planning committee document.

Russia is capable of building up a local or regional military threat at short notice and at an arbitrary spot, the draft document continued.

However, Europe at the end of the Cold War had concluded that "it could reduce its capabilities for fighting conventional, large scale and high intensity conflicts in Europe".

"While we never comment on alleged leaks or on our defense plans, NATO's core task is collective defense and we will do what it takes to defend any ally under attack," said NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu.

"In light of the new security situation created by Russia's illegal and illegitimate aggression against Ukraine, we have taken immediate measures to enhance collective security in the air, at sea and on the ground."

The Ukraine crisis has compelled the alliance to refocus on its core mission of defending its members after years in which its main effort has been far away in Afghanistan.

The line is Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, and Turkey. Those countries, and most European countries west of them, would bring a world war if Russia chose to invade them. However, the Baltic states and recent NATO exercises in them spend the West’s money protecting the Nordstream gas pipeline that takes money from NATO countries and gives money to Russia. It is in Russia’s military, political, and economic interest to let the West continue this arrangement.

Further, the economic developments in Asia and Africa, that have faster annual GDP growth rates than the US and EU, will allow the shifting and increasing of gas sales to Asia and Africa. Russia can also take advantage of increasing refined petroleum product sales to these growing markets owing to shorter tanker distances and costs to the Far East from Siberia and China and to Africa and India from the Black Sea ports of Novorossiysk at present and from Crimean ports after the two mile road and rail bridge is built across the Strait of Kerch. Russia’s refined petroleum product sales give the added benefit of taking $100 billion permanently each year from US profits and giving this $100 billion permanently each year to Russia. The US trade deficit will grow from $500 billion per year to $600 billion per year.

More than 70,500 signed as of now! Please Sign Today, Pass Along.

For those who were paying attention, Russia only intervened in the Ukraine after hundreds of statues of Lenin were toppled, statues that were supposed to have been toppled 23-years earlier if the “collapse” of the USSR had been true and not the strategic ruse it was.

You see, a good percentage of the Kiev demonstrators were security forces pretending to be demonstrators, which left a weakened security apparatus in the rest of the nation. In other words, the Kiev demonstrations were staged by the government (in cooperation with Moscow), but due to the weakened security presence throughout the rest of the nation, real demonstrations broke out all over the Ukraine, toppling hundreds of statues to Lenin, and necessitating the Russian military presence to assist Ukrainian security in resorting “order”.

NATO troops to the Baltic states is a distraction, a pretense that Moscow is threatening the Baltic states as she is threatening the Ukraine, but Russia isn’t threatening the Ukraine, she’s restoring “order” to the Ukraine.

“Krasnaya Zvezda” is Russian for “Red Star”, the official newspaper of Soviet and later Russian Ministry of Defense. The paper’s official designation is, “Central Organ of the Russian Ministry of Defense.” Note the four Soviet emblems next to the still existing Soviet era caption titled “Red Star”(!), one of the Soviet emblems including the image of Lenin, the man who removed the independent Russian nation from the map, supplanting it within the new nation called the USSR, a murderous one-party government that spread violence throughout the world in order to “liberate” the world, and bring into existence a one-world Soviet dictatorship! If the “collapse” of the USSR was real, then the “Red Star” caption, four Soviet emblems and Lenin’s image could not form the masthead of the Russian Ministry of Defense’s newspaper, due to their association with the Soviet Union and its ideals of world revolution. Imagine the official paper of the German Ministry of Defense is named “Das Third Reich”, where next to the caption are four Nazi emblems, one of the emblems sporting a profile of Adolph Hitler’s head!

The fraudulent “collapse” of the USSR (and East Bloc) couldn’t have been pulled off until both political parties in the United States (and political parties elsewhere in the West) were co-opted by Moscow & Allies, which explains why verification of the “collapse” was never undertaken by the West, such verification being (1) a natural administrative procedure (since the USSR wasn’t occupied by Western military forces); and (2) necessary for the survival of the West. Recall President Reagan’s favorite phrase, “Trust, but verify”.

Notice that not one political party in the West demanded verification of the collapse of the USSR, and the media failed to alert your attention to this fact, including the “alternative” media. When determining whether the “former” USSR is complying with arms control treaties, what does the United States do to confirm compliance? Right, the United States sends into the “former” USSR investigative teams to VERIFY compliance, yet when it’s the fate of the West that’s at stake should the collapse of the USSR be a ruse, what does the United States do to confirm the collapse? Nothing!

It gets worse–the West also never (1) de-Communized the Soviet Armed Forces of its Communist Party officer corps, which was 90% officered by Communist Party members; and (2) arrested and detained the 6-million vigilantes that assisted the Soviet Union’s Ministry of the Interior control the populations of the larger cities during the period of “Perestroika” (1986-1991)!

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.
