
When the natural gas was discovered, it made a lot of property owners, overnight millionaires.

A lot of area colleges and universities also reacted to help supply a workforce.

Now, six years later the job demand is still there and it doesn’t look like it’s going anywhere anytime soon.

"There's estimated somewhere between 100 and 120 years of natural gas in these Haynesville type shales that are distributed around the country," said Gary Boucher, Chemistry and Applied Physics Professor, LSUS.

BPCC in Bossier, Louisiana Tech in Ruston, and LSUS in Shreveport all recognized the importance of the gas boom and it became an educational game-changer.

BPCC and LSUS even created new courses to help support the job demand.

"Initially, we didn't have any area that directly impacted the need that was created,” said Boucher. “However, about two years ago, LSU Baton Rouge gave us petroleum engineering on our campus."

"One of the great programs we've created, part of a renaissance in what we call our engineering technology programs, we created an oil and gas technology program that is one of the most thriving programs," said Dr. Jim Henderson, BPCC Chancellor.

Louisiana Tech believed it was already well equipped with courses that range from mechanical to chemical engineering.

"The university offers eight different masters degrees in engineering and to create a new program just based on that would be very expensive and maybe too specialized," said Dr. Stan Napper, Vice President for Research and Development, Louisiana Tech.

Dr. Napper said there are a lot of jobs out there for students.

"There are more jobs probably available now than we can provide and even all of the engineering colleges at it together in our state,” he said. “We're seeing a dramatic increase and working hard to meet that demand."

This means, those science and engineering classes are still in high demand.

"We have 140 students enrolled in that program,” said Dr. Jim Henderson. “What's interesting is about half of them are already employed in the sector so to see this program to achieve this associates degree is a great advantage for them for moving up in the ranks and being more competitive in that market."

Looking to our energy future, the big focus is on alternative energy sources like solar and wind.

However, Dr. Boucher says we are not at the point where that could replace our current system, just enhance it.

So he says the real focus for the future, at least for now, is natural gas.

"A lot of people don't realize this, but there are like seven natural gas export permits that have been granted by the United States government to export natural gas to other countries,” he said. “These range from about 770 million cubic feet per day to about 2.2 billion cubic feet per day as far as exporting natural gas and these will be completed in a matter of anywhere from months to years and it's going to open up a whole new market for natural gas, the shale produce."

"It's a growing industry,” said Dr. Henderson. “One of the great things about the Haynesville shale is in the next three to four years it's going to be more thriving than it ever was, even in the beginning. It's just the nature of the energy market and the way that Americans are moving toward energy independence."

Send your news tip or story idea to the KTBS 3 Newsroom.  Enter your email address below to get started.

We're sorry, but only one entry is allowed per person.

Thank you for your continued interest.

Thank you for your submission to KTBS 3 News.  A member of our staff may contact you for more information.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTBS. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service .
