
VADODARA: M S University (MSU) has appointed an external agency to carry out the structural stability survey of its aging buildings. This agency will suggest measures for repair and structural strengthening of the buildings, many of which are over 50 years old.

The university has roped in Sthapati Designers and  Consultants Private Limited to carry out this survey.

The university campus is spread over 275 acres land and has 60 lakh square feet built-up area. The campus houses buildings like the famous  Faculty of Arts, the  Faculty of Performing Arts (popularly known as  Music College) and the Kalabhavan premises — all of them over 100 years old.

Others like the buildings of  Faculty of Education and Psychology, the Faculty of Science, the Baroda Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya among others are over 50 years old.

"The agency will carry out survey by assessing structural stability and durability of all this buildings. Also, load bearing capacity of these buildings will be tested. The agency will provide a detailed project report including photographs, videos and other documents. Based on this report, special repair works will be pursued by the university," MSU's officer on special duty (registrar)  Amit Dholakia said.

For the first phase, the university has already identified chemical engineering department building, pharmacy building, Polytechnic College building,  Faculty of Science building apart from Vikrambaug and Adhyapak Kutir for carrying out special repair works.

The university has estimated that the special repairs and retrofitting of these buildings in the first phase will cost nearly Rs 8 crore.

Presently, the university is funding the project through the university maintenance and development fund which is collected from students. "We will be also approaching  Gujarat government and seek funding from corporates for protection of heritage buildings," said Dholakia.

The university has also decided to appoint an external chartered accountancy firm to carry out external audit of its ongoing construction projects to bring in greater transparency and accountability. These decisions, recommended by the purchase committee, were approved by MSU's syndicate members on Saturday.
