
Police and paramedics were on hand throughout the event, which claims to offer students the 'best night of their lives'

Hundreds of students hit the streets of Liverpool city centre last night for the latest Carnage bar crawl.

Hordes of revellers took part in the Brazilian Beach Party-themed event, which boasts of alcoholic drinks for as little as £1.

Groups of students took to the streets dressed in floral garlands and Carnage t-shirts, as they spent the night hitting the bars in the city centre while celebrating the end of the university term.

Warm evening: Hundreds of students enjoyed themselves on the warm spring  night as they took part in the Carnage bar crawl which claims to offers  students the 'best night of their lives'

The sell-out night claims to offers students the 'best night of their lives'.

Some of the partygoers took a tumble and fell on the cobbled streets as a number of women struggled to stay upright in their heels.

A number of the students meanwhile called it a night at around 4am and poured into local take-away shops.

Police and paramedics were on hand throughout the night and kept a close eye on the event.

The  Carnage UK events are run by Varsity Leisure Group, a  multi-million-pound business that puts on hundreds of pub crawls  throughout Britain.

Previous themes for the event have included 'Playboys vs Bunnies', 'Nympho Nurses And Dirty Doctors' and 'Pimps And Hoes'

Organisers have been criticised in the past for encouraging binge drinking and anti-social behaviour.

But founder Paul Bahia, a Birmingham University graduate, has previously denied this, insisting the events are 'heavily focused on group identity, social and ethical cohesion and fancy dress themes'.

Previous themes for the event have included 'Playboys vs Bunnies', 'Nympho Nurses And Dirty Doctors' and 'Pimps And Hoes'.

The organiser has previously insisted the events are 'heavily focused on group identity, social and ethical cohesion and fancy dress themes'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
