
Most schools in the city have excelled in the Class X examinations, results of which were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) online on Monday evening. The board once again announced the results without any prior intimation, to do away with any hype surrounding the results.

The Jnana Prabodhini Prashala registered 100 per cent result with all 78 students successfully clearing the examination.

“Our 50 students scored more than 90 per cent results, while 25 others have scored in the range of 80 per cent to 90 per cent. The average scoring percentage of our school is 91.1 per cent,” said school principal Milind Naik.

Ninad Rajandekar (98 pc), Varad Deshpande (97.6 pc), Anup Itale (97.6 pc), Devvrata Mahajan (97.6 pc) and Sai Shahane (97.4 pc) are among the Jnana Prabodhini Prashala students who have topped at school level. Also, Jnana Prabodhini Prashala has as many as 14 students who have scored 100 per cent marks in Sanskrit, while one student has scored full marks in Mathematics.

About the surprise announcement of results, Naik said it was a welcome step in keeping with the interests of students in mind. “Students face a lot of anxiety and uncertainty when the pre-announced date of results approaches near. The surprise declaration is doing away with such kind of negative emotions,” he said.

The Orchid School, too, had 100 per cent results with 11 students scoring cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 10. The school has 32 students in A1 grade and 13 students in A2 grade, according to an official release.

As many as 198 students appeared for the exam from Delhi Public School (DPS), of which 71 students secured ‘A1‘ grade and 41 secured ‘A2’ grade. The school has as many as 59 students who have scored 10 CGPA.

“The results of our school are very good. Our students have performed in keeping with our reputation for past so many years. We arrange so many extra-curricular activities for our students, which have reflected in terms of good Class X results,” said DPS principal Neelam Chakrabarty.

City International School was among the other schools that have registered 100 per cent results. A total of 42 students had appeared in the examinations, and all of them cleared it. As many as 15 students have secured secured A1 grade.
