
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Options For Income is a contributor page created by the editors of Stock Options Channel, a stock options research Website. Our site includes a number of features that allow investors to dig deeper into interesting stock options opportunities, including our proprietary YieldBoost ranking system. Some of these actionable ideas will appear on this Forbes contributor page each day.   The site and our articles focus on selling option contracts and collecting premium income in the hope that they won’t be exercised and thus will expire worthless. It’s an income generating strategy currently employed by many of the most sophisticated money managers and hedge funds. Now StocksOptionsChannel.com and Forbes offer this information in an easy to use and understand format.

Investors in Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc ( NYSE: VRX ) saw new options begin trading today, for the August 16th expiration. One of the key data points that goes into the price an option buyer is willing to pay, is the time value, so with 89 days until expiration the newly trading contracts represent a possible opportunity for sellers of puts or calls to achieve a higher premium than would be available for the contracts with a closer expiration. At Stock Options Channel , our YieldBoost formula has looked up and down the VRX options chain for the new August 16th contracts and identified one put and one call contract of particular interest.

The put contract at the $125.00 strike price has a current bid of $7.60. If an investor was to sell-to-open that put contract, they are committing to purchase the stock at $125.00, but will also collect the premium, putting the cost basis of the shares at $117.40 (before broker commissions). To an investor already interested in purchasing shares of VRX, that could represent an attractive alternative to paying $126.26/share today.

Because the $125.00 strike represents an approximate 1% discount to the current trading price of the stock (in other words it is out-of-the-money by that percentage), there is also the possibility that the put contract would expire worthless. The current analytical data (including greeks and implied greeks) suggest the current odds of that happening are 56%. Stock Options Channel will track those odds over time to see how they change, publishing a chart of those numbers on our website under the contract detail page for this contract. Should the contract expire worthless, the premium would represent a 6.08% return on the cash commitment, or 24.93% annualized — at Stock Options Channel we call this the YieldBoost.

Considering the fact that the $130.00 strike represents an approximate 3% premium to the current trading price of the stock (in other words it is out-of-the-money by that percentage), there is also the possibility that the covered call contract would expire worthless, in which case the investor would keep both their shares of stock and the premium collected. The current analytical data (including greeks and implied greeks) suggest the current odds of that happening are 52%. On our website under the contract detail page for this contract, Stock Options Channel will track those odds over time to see how they change and publish a chart of those numbers (the trading history of the option contract will also be charted). Should the covered call contract expire worthless, the premium would represent a 5.39% boost of extra return to the investor, or 22.09% annualized, which we refer to as the YieldBoost.
