
Google is already receiving requests to remove links from its search results. Earlier this week the European Court of Justice ruled that search engines will have to honor requests to remove old information from search results.

However, the court did not make it clear under which instances removing the link was warranted. This goes against the ruling last June by Niilo Jaaskinen when he said that Google should not be responsible for content published by third parties.

CNN reported that some of the requests to Google to remove links came from people that might have an interest in removing the information that is not in the spirit of the ruling. These include a politician with articles about his behavior in office, a doctor with bad reviews and a pedofile convicted of child pornography.

According to the Washington Post, Google’s UK branch received at least 35 requests with over half of them being convicted criminals. The BBC reported a man who killed his family is among the requests as well.

Google already receives requests to t ake down links to material that infringe on copyrights or sites that violate laws . However, these laws are generally more clear cut than the European ruling.

“The very notion of government imposing a statute of limitations on free speech rights is creepy. The rules associated with such a regime would be nightmarish, and they would undoubtedly set off a stampede of politicians and other powerful people trying to sanitize their pasts,” the editorial board at USA Today said.

The EU External Freedom of Expression Policy was released Friday by WikiLeaks and could have future bearing on this issue. The introduction addresses some of the concerns facing the EU after this “right to be forgotten” ruling.

It would seem that some further direction by the court is needed to enable companies to comply in such a way that balances an individual’s rights with the public’s right to information. In the meantime it is up to Google’s discretion whether to comply with requests to remove links.

Cheryl Kemp is the Content Director for the WHIR and HostingCon. At the WHIR she is responsible for writing and developing content, managing social media communities, and photography and videography. At HostingCon she is responsible for recruiting and coordinating advisory boards, as well as managing the conference program development process and speaker selection. She attended the University of Cincinnati and holds a degree in Psychology. You can find her on twitter and google+ .

ResellerClub presents HostingCon Europe Register now for ResellerClub Presents HostingCon Europe. Oct 14-15, Amsterdam. Save €50 with Early Bird Pricing!

New Behavioral Approach to Web Security by Fireblade Click the link to learn how to inspect your users’ behavior and interactions with valuable website assets as a part of a new approach to web security.
