
During his tenure as vice president, the Onion has had a field day with Joe Biden. The satirical publication’s fictionalized version of the second-most powerful man in America is the kind of guy who washes his Trans Am shirtless , gets banned from Dave and Buster’s , and flees to Mexico .

But at the same time, another pop cultural narrative has emerged more quietly: Joe Biden as smart-girl sex symbol.

More recently, it turns out that Biden became part of the current fad high school students have for asking famous people to prom on a lark. In most cases, the people doing the asking are young men hoping that gorgeous adult women will help them make a splash. Sometimes, female celebrities actually bow to the opportunity to cement their status as fantasy objects and say yes when the requests are made to them publicly.

Biden, of course, could not make it. But rather than leaving the letter, which Maselli sent last fall, unanswered, Biden arranged to have a corsage delivered to her and is setting up a visit to Washington for her and her family. The gesture was perfectly appropriate, given Biden’s age and station: He made Maselli feel special and encouraged her interest in politics and public service without making himself the center of attention or taking anything away from other prom attendees. He did the same on “Parks and Recreation” for Leslie, who is rising in the bureaucracy, by telling her how great her work is.

Biden’s response is charming, and it explains why a 71-year-old with a somewhat strange job and an intense passion for Amtrak as one of his defining features has become an unlikely sex symbol. What is funny about the Onion’s version of Biden is that it is so incongruous and plays to the idea of the vice presidency as a somewhat do-nothing job, where eccentrics can thrive. But when he has control of his own image in both fictional and real scenarios, Biden — without taking himself too seriously — is showing himself to be someone who is interested in women’s minds.

There is a lesson here for all of those teenage boys trying to get the Kate Uptons of the world to go to prom with them. Fellows, listen up: You may make your reputation with other boys by convincing an attractive girl (or woman) to grace your arm for an evening. But being the object of kindness and admiration is not actually the same thing as being liked.

Alyssa Rosenberg blogs about pop culture for The Washington Post's Opinions section.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
