
Israeli blogger Noam R. was summoned on Monday to a “warning meeting” by the Israel Security Agency (the Shin Bet). Noam was questioned on research he is conducting, and was warned about various aspects of his work.

“Rona” asked Noam what was the aim of his investigation, and what he intends to do with his research. She protested when Noam claimed that Shin Bet people are involved in the torture of Palestinians. From there on out, the conversation turned into “an ideological debate,” as Noam put. He was asked why he attends protests in the West Bank and for the names of other political activists. When he refused to answer, “Rona” and “Zaki” dropped that line of questioning.

Noam’s blog, Godwin was Right , was launched in 2009. It deals with affairs that don’t receive enough media attention, with the occupation, with arrests under gag orders, violence in interrogations, undemocratic legislation and other aspects of the Palestinian issue. One of his latest posts dealt with the interrogations of Palestinian minors by the Shin Bet. The name of the blog is a reference to Godwin’s Law .

In mid April, Noam  reported on the secret arrest of Palestinian journalist Majd Kayyal . Many people already knew about the arrest, but a gag order forbidding the press from reporting on it hadn’t yet been lifted. However, Noam’s meeting with the Shin Bet didn’t touch on his violation of the gag order.

In the past few years, activists in Anarchists Against the Wall were also summoned to such warning meetings with ‘Rona’ from the Shin Bet. A couple of activists – Kobi Snitz and Assaf Kintzer, declined the “invitation” and told ‘Rona’ that they would will only come if a warrant was issued.

For additional original analysis and breaking news, visit +972 Magazine's Facebook page or follow us on Twitter . Our newsletter features a comprehensive round-up of the week's events. Sign up here .

More pressingly, does your mother date. I’m in the market.

Please disregard my earlier reply. I apologize; I was out of line.

The point I wanted to make, in brief: you are trivializing Noam’s harassment by the police, merely because you disagree with his beliefs. I think that is callous.

Noam R. and his cronies had my sympathetic ear until I read about Shapira tagging the Warsaw Ghetto.

Now I’m no longer interested in their difficulties with Shin Bet.

Funny how that works.

Yes. Verily, to any good Jew, the sanctity of some old historical site is far more important than needless police harassment. Good to see supporters of the “Jewish and Democratic State” have their democratic priorities straight.

Some of the articles on his blog are not bad at all.

“In mid April, Noam reported on the secret arrest of Palestinian journalist Majd Kayyal. Many people already knew about the arrest, but a gag order forbidding the press from reporting on it HADN’T (emphasis mine)  yet been lifted.

Indeed, ‘the gag order re the investigation and arrest of (possible) terrorists had not been lifted’ and that was the legal reason why Noam R. was summoned and warned, i.e. contempt of court, etc. End of story. Noam R. should be very happy he did not get fined/imprisoned for his crime(s).

You lie, Mr. Noam Scheizaf!

I was born in Ramat-Gan and today live and work in Tel Aviv. Before working as a journalist, I served four and a half years in the IDF.

@alanelsner @lrozen it's now clear why Kerry looks so down lately.

+972 is an independent, blog-based web magazine. It was launched in August 2010, resulting from a merger of a number of popular English-language blogs dealing with life and politics in Israel and Palestine.

+972 is an independent, blog-based web magazine. It was launched in August 2010, resulting from a merger of a number of popular English-language blogs dealing with life and politics in Israel and Palestine.
