
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

ST. LOUIS (KSDK) - More than a month after hundreds of school girls were kidnapped by terrorists in Nigeria, African leaders met in Paris this weekend and pledged to work together to bring them home.  They agreed to wage a "total war" on Boko Haram by sharing intelligence, coordinating actions and monitoring borders.  Nigerians here in St. Louis are urging the U.S. government to help bring down the terrorist group.

#BRING BACK OUR GIRLS. Ground-Breaking Volunteer Event to Raise Awareness of Kidnapped and Exploited Young Women in Nigeria. A volunteer march will be launched in St. Louis, MO to provide support for the world wide effort and outcry to increase awareness for the kidnapped girls in Nigeria known as "#Bring Back Our Girls".  According to, the event coordinator, we are asking for concerned individuals of all ethnic background to come out and join the march in support of the 200 + young women kidnapped in Nigeria and to raise awareness of the young women and children who are kidnapped, exploited and used as sex slaves throughout the world.

The kickoff is scheduled for Sunday May 18, 2014, from 2:00 pm to 4:00 pm.  The March starts from St. Louis City Hall to the Old Courthouse to include other State and Federal buildings in downtown St. Louis. The march for the kidnapped and exploited women will continue every Saturday and Sunday, 2:00 pm to 4:00 pm, May 18th thru June 1, 2014.  Please join the Nigerian community in St. Louis and friends, to show your support for the plight of these young women.

A local Nigerian organizaton named Egbe Omo Yoruba of Greater St. Louis took to the steps of Central Library on Friday encourage the U.S. military's involvement in rescuing the girls.  There are about 45 families involved in this organization. Ade Adegboye, chairman of the board of directors, says it's important to bring awareness to this situation.

"We want the international community to help put pressure on the government to get those children and return the girls back to their parents," he said.

Tola Olayefun, president of the Egbe Omo Yoruba of Greater St. Louis, is flying to Nigeria tomorrow. He says the terrorist group might organize another horrific act if they are not stopped.

"The name of the group is Boko Haram, which means western education is forbidden. Essentially, they do not want children to go to school," he said.
