
A Sudanese Christian woman has been sentenced to death for refusing to renounce her faith and “return” to Islam, reports Morning Star News , which monitors the persecution of Christians around the world. Twenty-seven-year-old Meriam Yahia Ibrahim, who has a 20-month-old son and is eight months pregnant, was convicted by a Muslim court April 30 of apostasy, as well as of adultery for marrying a Christian man. Islam considers the relationship illicit, although Ibrahim has never practiced the Muslim faith and was raised by her mother as a Christian after her Muslim father abandoned the family.

Following her conviction, Ibrahim was given 15 days to recant her Christian faith and convert to Islam, and when she refused was sentenced to death by hanging, as well as 100 lashes for the adultery conviction. Before the sentence Ibrahim was forced to sit with a Muslim scholar who repeatedly tried to compel her to recant her faith. “I am a Christian, and I have never been a Muslim,” she told the scholar as well as Judge Abaas Al Khalifa in court.

“The court has sentenced you to be hanged until you are dead,” Al Khalifa told Ibrahim, as an Islamic crowd shouted for the court to punish her.

Meanwhile, the Sudanese government has been downplaying the seriousness of Ibrahim's predicament, according to All Africa News . The news site reported that the country's parliamentary speaker, al-Fatih Izz Al-Din, insisted Ibrahim's sentence is merely a “preliminary ruling” that can be appealed through the country's judicial process.

A second Sudanese official echoed the position that Ibrahim was in no immediate danger, issuing a statement that appeared designed to distance the government from direct involvement in the court ruling and to counter backlash over charges of human rights abuses. “Sudan is committed to all human rights and freedom of faith granted in Sudan by the constitution and law,” insisted Foreign Ministry spokesman Abu-Bakr Al-Sideeg in a statement issued to Reuters. Sideeg added, however, that he fully trusted the integrity and independence of Sudan's judiciary.
