
WHAT’S THE rush? After 4.5 years of talking, the Nevada County Biomass Task Force has tentatively decided to hire a contractor to conduct a feasibility study. I’m betting we’ll see the next ice age before we generate any energy from local biomass … CLUELESS? KCRA-TV News reports a surge in demand for swimming pools despite the drought, with demand particularly strong in affluent areas like Granite Bay. I guess price is no object when it comes to buying the water to fill those pools … A SACRAMENTO City Council candidate is the target of a hit piece criticizing his large CalPERS pension. Does that remind you of anybody around here? … IT’S AN article of faith among conservatives that tax hikes kill economic growth, so how do they explain the surge in California’s economy after voters approved a temporary sales tax increase? … I DON’T buy Rep. Doug LaMalfa’s campaign claim that “He’s One of Us.” I don’t own a cowboy hat and I rarely eat rice.

This nation faces serious issues at all levels of government, the kind of issues that should inspire thoughtful discourse from the candidates seeking our votes in the June and November elections.

Then there is the reality of American elections, a three-ring circus where cynical political operatives accentuate the negative in a manner that trivializes the issues and appeals to voters’ darker instincts. People buy into this and then complain about the lousy representation they get in Sacramento and Washington.

A good example of this appeal to our baser instincts can be found in the Republican primary for the 4th Congressional District, which includes the Truckee area of Nevada County. Incumbent Tom McClintock is pitted against Art Moore in a race that will go to one of them, since the Democrats are taking a pass.

McClintock, known by some as Tourist Tom because he lives outside the district but says he’ll move there as soon as the real estate market improves, has attacked Moore for failing to vote in the last 17 years.

“Why would anybody vote for a candidate for Congress who’s never registered to vote and never voted?” asks a hit piece mailed to voters.

Moore, a West Point graduate who had 14 years of Army active duty and National Guard service, told the Sacramento Bee that he never voted because he followed a traditional view that military officers should remain apolitical.

Moore returned fire by trotting out two military veterans who mentioned that McClintock never served in the military and can’t even vote for himself. His campaign manager said the congressman “never even sniffed an infantry boot,” which is kind of kinky when you think about.

Maybe Moore should have solicited a quote from Supervisor Nate Beason, a 30-year veteran of the U.S. Navy who has endorsed Moore but can’t vote for him because he lives in the 1st Congressional district.

Speaking of the first, Rep. Doug LaMalfa appears to be strolling rather than running for re-election. Certainly he has done a minimal amount of campaigning to date, declining invitations to League of Women Voters’ forums in Redding and Grass Valley, before sitting down last week with The Union for an interview and just recently activating his campaign web site.

LaMalfa’s confidence may stem from the fact that he will face a Democrat — Heidi Hall or Dan Levine — who has little money or name recognition. Neither can expect much help from the Democratic Party, which will perform political triage by spending a token amount in the First District while directing the big bucks to campaigns of vulnerable Democrat officeholders.

Money doesn’t seem to be a problem for Supervisor Terry Lamphier and challenger Dan Miller in the third supervisor district, where each has received substantial contributions from developers and other interests.

Miller, currently the mayor of Grass Valley, has challenged Lamphier to a debate any time, any place, an invitation the incumbent has declined (he says complex issues can’t be explained in sound bites). Each says he can provide the leadership the district needs, and voters got a chance to see them in action last Tuesday.

The Grass Valley City Council took up, yet again, the issue of banning plastic bags. The council discussed a variety of models for the proposed ordinance, then asked City Manager Bob Richardson to come back with some suggestions. It’s not clear where this is leading the city, but Miller pointed out that if nothing is done by Sept. 1, the state will make the decision for the city.

On the same day at the Rood Center, the board of supervisors passed an “urgency” ordinance requiring the removal of vegetation on small parcels of land because of the grave fire danger stemming from the drought.

The amendments were proposed by Supervisor Hank Weston, who is seeking re-election in District 4. His two challengers, Fran Cole and Jedediah Biagi, weren’t impressed with the board’s foresight, or lack thereof.

George Boardman lives at Lake of the Pines. His column is published Mondays in The Union.
