
A police officer was fired after being involved in a hit-and-run while off duty.

Raphael Garcia, 27, lost his job on March 12, nearly five months after pleading no contest to leaving the scene of a crash with property damage, a second-degree misdemeanor.

Internal Affairs found that Garcia had violated several department policies, including conduct unbecoming an officer and lying during an internal investigation.

Garcia, who had been a Davie officer since November 2008, could not be reached for comment Monday.

According to police and court records, Garcia ran a stop sign in Davie and crashed his Toyota Tundra truck into a Toyota Camry near Palm Trace Landings apartments at 2:42 a.m. Sept. 16, 2012, causing $8,000 damage to the Camry.

Garcia jumped out of his truck to make sure the driver of the Camry and her two passengers were not hurt.

He then got back in his truck and fled the scene without exchanging information with the other driver, according to the Davie Police Department and the Broward State Attorney's Office.

"It is unknown whether alcohol contributed to this crash, as investigating officers did not make contact with defendant until days after the fact, when evidence of alcohol consumption would have disappeared," wrote Assistant State Attorney Timothy Donnelly in a memo dated Nov. 8.

Nina Patel, the driver of the Camry, told police that Garcia drove off while she was on the phone with 911. She provided the dispatcher with Garcia's tag number.

Chris Adams, the Davie officer who responded to the crash, told Internal Affairs he did not realize a fellow officer had been involved in the hit-and-run.

"It was late in the shift, I was just ready to go home at that point," Adams told Internal Affairs.

Patel, 24, and her friends told police that Garcia never provided his phone number or any other information.

Three days later, Garcia called the Davie Police Department to say he was at fault in the accident, but claimed it was not a hit-and-run, records show.

Garcia told police he exchanged information with Patel, but had misplaced the note and could not show a copy to investigators.

Garcia told police that James Krey, a Davie officer who was in Garcia's truck at the time of the crash, could back up his claim that he had exchanged information with the driver of the Camry.

Krey said Garcia come back to the truck with a piece of paper, but he did not see what was written on it.

Before the crash, Garcia had given Maiker Sanchez, another Davie officer, a ride home.

Sanchez told a prosecutor handling the hit-and-run case that he could not recall whether Garcia had been drinking earlier that night.

Garcia told Internal Affairs he was sick that night and had not been drinking.

Garcia had been on administrative leave with pay until his firing.
