
The US Central Intelligence Agency has denied reports of a number of CIA agents allegedly killed in clashes between forces loyal to the authorities in Kiev and self-defence units in eastern Ukraine. Earlier, the People’s Mayor of Slavyansk, Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, said the so-called ‘counter-terrorist operation’ in the east of the country involved around 70 foreign nationals. He asserted that 13 FBI and CIA agents were killed by self-defence forces and 12 others – wounded. A CIA spokesperson said on a Twitter page that no officers have been killed in Ukraine, describing claims by pro-Russian activists as ‘false’. And now let's talk more about detention of Russian journalists in Ukraine. Radio VR's in-house political commentator Dmitry Babich expresses his opinion.

Ukraine has never been welcoming for Russian journalists even before the current nationalist government came to power. I can tell you that back in the 90s when I traveled to Ukraine it was the most problematic border for me. You couldn’t nearly compare it to countries like Turkey or Lebanon. It was much easier to cross the borders of these countries despite certain hostilities going on there than to cross the Ukrainian border. We should not forget that the people in security service of Ukraine, most of them are old KGB professionals and they still have all the instincts for suspecting people.

For example, I was than a TV reporter and I had with me about 15 tapes that I filmed, and there was no war going on in the country, I just interviewed the customs officials and I wanted to tell the stories of people who had difficulties crossing the border with Ukraine.

It was in the end of 90s, 1999. And I was nearly forced to show them all the tapes so that they could look them through that they don’t contain anything wrong. And it is despite me being before basically controlled and taken around by the customs officials by Ukraine. It was the border guards not believing the customs officials. And finally I managed to leave the country but it was the most problematic border. Usually TV reporters have a bigger difficulties than newspaper reporters when they cross borders, but this case was exceptional. And now again if you read the Ukrainian press, it always says that these people who were actually insurgents posing the reporters and that is why they had handcuffs on them. A correspondent of Russian TV Evgeny Poddubny just joked, imagine what would happen if American reporter was found handcuffed in some country like Serbia or Croatia and the local authorities would say that they suspected him of helping some insurgents. The response from the US would be quite predictable. But Russian reporters in Ukraine are facing tremendous challenges and great risks because on the one hand they are welcomed there by a lot of people because especially in the east of Ukraine people still view Russians as brothers, and strangely people have a positive stereotype about Moscow press, that it is more professional, that it would tell you the story in a much more objective way than the local Ukrainian media. On the other hand, the officials and especially the security service suspect you of being an agent. What I didn’t like in this story in particular was that a woman reporter from RTR was basically order to leave Ukraine because they said she was insighting ethnic hatred and destabilizing the country. This is a wrong way to treat a reporter. Obviously journalists when they report, they can make you angry, you may not allow them into the country but once you allow them into the country, please respect them and don’t make such strange accusations.

I think that in these cases we have a different situation because I think that the correspondents of live news and this woman journalist from RTR were basically detained because the authorities didn’t like what they reported and the corresponded of Vice News, who was detained by the separatists, as well as a person from Novaya Gazeta, the separatists just suspected them of spying on them and telling the Ukrainian authorities where their forces were located. I would remind you that in both cases the matter was resolved fairly quickly. I mean they didn’t spend weeks or even days in captivity. They were let out pretty fast. I think there is a certain problem here. Of course the insurgents in Slavyansk understand that 99% of reporters from Western countries who come to Slavyansk are going to make negative reports about them because that is what their bosses expect them to write.

All rights reserved.
