
WATERLOO | Massive, unprecedented flooding in the Balkans has claimed lives, displaced thousands and knocked out communication between local Bosnians and family members and friends who may be in danger.

Rep. Anesa Kajtazovic, born in Bosnia, has relatives in the eastern Bosnian town of Doboj who last she heard were escaping to the second floor of their home as the floodwaters rose.

"Houses are collapsing like toys," Kajtazovic said. "Seeing this happen to people who have gone through a war and now this. ... If they didn't lose everything in the war, they're are quite a few families who are losing it now."

According to a Sunday report from The Guardian in London, 20 deaths have been recorded in Doboj. At least 35 people across the Balkans have died and tens of thousands have been forced to flee their homes.

Almost a third of Bosnia, chiefly in the northeast, resembles a huge muddy lake with houses, roads and rail lines submerged, The Associated Press reported. Officials said about a million people -- more than a quarter of the country’s population – live in the worst-affected areas.

Landslides triggered by the unprecedented rains have raised fears about the estimated 1 million land mines left from the region’s 1990s war. Many of the carefully placed warning signs around the minefields have been swept away and in many cases dislodged the mines themselves. Beyond the immediate danger to Bosnians, loose mines also could create an international problem if floodwaters carry the explosives downstream.

Esma Lulic, originally of Velika Kladusa in western Bosnia, heard entire cities were covered by mudslides, bringing mines with them.

She moved to Waterloo from the northwestern Bosnian city of Bihac, where the river Una threatens to surge.

Lulic said she and her family have “a little bit of experience” with catastrophes like this since the 2008 flooding in Waterloo. Water filled Liberty Park near her home, and her husband and sons helped build sandbag buffers.

Fikret Kudic of Waterloo, also originally from Velika Kladusa, said even though he doesn't hail from the afflicted region in Bosnia, it still grips him.

"I belong over there. That is my homeland and my people. We would like to help as much as we can," he said. "Hopefully all countries all around the world are going to respond."

A number of efforts to rally assistance for those in Bosnia are popping up around Waterloo.

The local Bosnian Islamic Center was meeting Monday night to discuss efforts to raise money to send to the affected region.

Adis Fazlic and Adnan Lulic of Waterloo are organizing a social media campaign using #pray4bosnia and raising money for the Red Cross via gofundme.com/pray4bosnia with the goal of raising $10,000.

"The flooding started happening and it wasn’t grabbing too much national attention, so everyone here was thinking we need to do something. This is our home country that’s rebuilding from the war, and everything is destroyed again," Fazlic said.

"We're just trying to spread the word," Adnan Lulic said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Copyright 2014 Waterloo Cedar Falls Courier. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The Bosnian Islamic center of Waterloo is taking donations. Blankets, diapers, and personal hygiene items. They are located at 728 West 2nd Street Waterloo, Iowa. Donations start today May 20th until May 31st, from 5pm to 9pm everyday. Items will sent over to Bosnia via airplane to those in need. Money donations can be made via gofundme.com/pray4bosnia.

Username & Password Required!
