
Ricardo Amunjera and Marc Themba are credited with being Namibia's first gay married couple. Though homosexuality is criminalised in Namibia, the pair tied the knot in South Africa and returned to Namibia to become prominent LGBT rights campaigners .

Amunjera, 31, says he believes "the best way you can help somebody is by telling them your story". His activism has earned him the title of Mr Gay Namibia 2013 and is he is the process of setting local support group in his home town, joining a countrywide support network for LGBT. His work is not without its risks; another winner of the Mr Gay Namibia title, Wendelinus Hamutenya, was attacked as he walked home days after winning the competition. According to the rights group OutRight Namibia , LGBT people in Namibia encounter homophobia and transphobia on a daily basis.

In a film about their lives , made by the International HIV/Aids Alliance and Positive Vibes , the couple discuss their activism, their religious beliefs and their experience of conducting a loving relationship in a country where being gay is against the law. It also shows Amunjera fielding calls and texts, and using social media, to answer questions and comments from people seeking support around the country.

Amunjera and Themba will join the Guardian Africa Network for a live Q&A from 1pm - 2pm BST on Tuesday 20 May, to answer your questions about living as an openly gay activist in Namibia. What would you like to ask? Post your questions in the comments below.

Hi Maeve, it is a pleasure to join into the web chat.

Hi Traveller23,

I 'd say that Bisexuality issues are mostly overlooked or ignored as there is more need to address the intense and escalating Gay & Lesbian matters worldwide.

Hello, I am the Senior Adviser on HUman Rights at the International HIV/AIDS Alliance (who made It's all about love with Marc and Ricardo). I just wanted to first, congratulate Marc and Ricardo on being so brave. We shouldn't underestimate what it is like to come out and defend human rights for all, includng LGBTI people these days. In Africa alone, more and more countries are introducing or enforcing anti-homosexuality legislation, like in Nigeria or Uganda. And in many more, politicians are venting their homophobia openly, fueling stigma and discrimination at every level of society.

My question would be how do they avoid arrest or legal action, and how do they carry out their activism under the constant threat of homophobia from anti-gay activists and law enforcement? Lastly, congrats on being married and having so much courage in such a dangerous situation!

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.

Discover Sophie Ward’s powerful and moving celebration of love and marriage.
