
ANNAPOLIS, Md., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. (TCS) (TSYS),world leader in highly reliable and secure mobile communication technology, announced today that Iusacell, the third largest carrier in Mexico, has deployed TCS Family Locator, a global locator application. Branded as Ubicacel Familiar, the service is available to Iusacell and its Unefon subsidiary's more than five million GSM subscribers throughout Mexico. The award-winning offering provides Iusacell customers with a flexible and easy-to-use solution to locate the handsets of one or more family members and view their locations on a map.

"Iusacell is dedicated to providing the most robust, secure and feature-rich location services to meet the needs of their customers. As more families look to innovative technologies to stay connected and safe, Ubicacel Familiar provides a simple solution via their mobile handset or computer. We are pleased to partner with Iusacell to offer family subscribers across Mexico with a trusted solution to help bring peace of mind," said Jay Whitehurst, TCS Commercial Solutions Group President.

ABI Research identifies Latin America as the fastest-growing region for family locator applications, with over 23 million downloads predicted by 2017.

TCS Family Locator enables families to stay connected using the latest in trusted positioning technologies, including assisted-GPS, WiFi and network-based solutions, whether the user is indoors or outside.

TCS' global locator applications seamlessly integrate with an operator's network location infrastructure technology to support handsets without GPS.

For even more precise location and to reduce network traffic, TCS' patented locator agent collects location information directly from GPS-capable handsets.

Via desktop, mobile application or SMS, subscribers can locate family members and receive detailed location information, including the approximate reverse-geocoded address.

TCS Family Locator enables subscribers to be notified of family member locations at pre-defined, scheduled times or to be alerted if a family member has arrived or departed a geo-fenced location.

Subscribers can search for points of interest nearby and then direct family and friends to that location.

A Frost & Sullivan award winner , TCS' end-to-end location-based services (LBS) solution provides a comprehensive applications portfolio, mapping and data servers, a robust middleware platform, a complete set of hardened device-agnostic Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) for LBS, location servers (i.e. GMLC, SLMC, SUPL Server, MPC) and LBS Assistance Data Services.

"Our customers are increasingly interested in taking advantage of innovative location services. TCS' award-winning LBS applications help us deliver new, value-added applications to provide our customers with an extra measure of security and confidence to keep their families safe", said Jesus Salvador Cansino Mier (Puesto), Head of Postpaid, Products and Services for Iusacell in Mexico.

TCS is a global leader in wireless Location Based Services (LBS) technology. It provides complete, end-to-end wireless LBS solutions that include branded and private-label applications, device-agnostic Application Programming Interfaces, infrastructure, mapping and content for leading consumer brands, content providers, voice service providers and more than 70 customers worldwide. TCS developed one of the world's first precise wireless location platforms and is the industry's leading provider of precise LBS infrastructure. Using innovative mobile cloud computing services, TCS offers top revenue-producing applications for navigation, hyper-local search, workforce tracking and family locators. For more information, visit TCS LBS services .

Twitter: @Iusacell Facebook: Iusacell.

About TeleCommunication Systems, Inc.

TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. (TCS) (TSYS) is a world leader in highly reliable and secure mobile communication technology. TCS infrastructure forms the foundation for market leading solutions in E9-1-1, text messaging, commercial location and deployable wireless communications. TCS is at the forefront of new mobile cloud computing services providing wireless applications for navigation, hyper-local search, asset tracking, social applications and telematics. Millions of consumers around the world use TCS wireless apps as a fundamental part of their daily lives. Government agencies utilize TCS' cybersecurity expertise, professional services, and highly secure deployable satellite solutions for mission-critical communications. Headquartered in Annapolis, MD, TCS maintains technical, service and sales offices around the world. To learn more about emerging and innovative wireless technologies, visit www.telecomsys.com .

Except for the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements as defined within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based upon TCS' current expectations and assumptions that if incorrect would cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Risks include those detailed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014.

Existing and prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise the information in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or circumstances, or otherwise.
