
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A Southwest Airlines route map promoting its new long routes from Dallas Love Field.

The international routes are part of a broader schedule announcement by Southwest, which on Monday extended its booking schedule through Jan. 4, 2015.

As part of that schedule extension , Southwest revealed new routes from Washington's Reagan National Airport (DCA). Service from DCA to both Indianapolis and Akron-Canton will start Nov. 2. Southwest says that by the end of 2014, it will be offering 44 daily departures to 14 different destinations from DCA.

Other new service in the Southwest schedule extension: nonstop routes from Washington Dulles to both Las Vegas and San Diego.

Southwest also revealed its schedule for 15 new long-distance routes it plans to add at Dallas Love Field when restrictions on such flights expire this fall.

Southwest already had announced which long-distance routes it planned to add , but it had not yet revealed the schedule (details below). Among Southwest's long-haul highlights from Love: six daily round-trip flights to both Washington Reagan National and Chicago Midway and four daily round-trip flights to Atlanta, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and Phoenix.

"There are some big gifts for everyone in this holiday schedule:  our initial nonstop offerings for a liberated Love Field in Dallas, and nearly triple the flights we currently offer at Reagan National Airport," Bob Jordan, Southwest's Chief Commercial Officer, says in a statement revealing Southwest's fall and early winter flight schedule.

Southwest subsidiary AirTran already flies to Mexico City and Punta Cana, but Southwest itself has yet to operate its own planes to a foreign destination. That will come July 1 when the carrier converts several of AirTran's existing international routes to Southwest-operated service and adds some of its own routes.

"We're .. bringing Southwest service to the final two international destinations on the network we created after acquiring AirTran Airways in 2011," Jordan says about converting Mexico City and Punta Cana from AirTran destinations to ones served by Southwest. "That integration will be completed on-plan by the end of this year."

As for the new flights from Dallas Love Field,  they'll come after the "Wright Amendment" rules that restrict most flights on large aircraft at the close-in Dallas airport expire. Currently, Wright restricts Love airlines to destinations within Texas and in eight nearby states. The law, which dates back to 1979, is set to expire in October as part of compromise to end the distance restrictions.
