
It's a story that's captured global attention. More than 200 Nigerian girls kidnapped from their school and held hostage by the Islamic militant group, Boko Haram. People from around the world are calling for the girls to be released including right here in Michiana.

From about 6,000 miles away, professors and students are sending a message of support through social media to the U.S. and Nigerian governments, groups they say have the power to bring the girls home safe and sound. It's an effort that hits close to home for one man.

Desmond Atem knew he had to be part of this movement.

"I just felt that my presence will help to strengthen the message outside," he said.

Atem is a student at IU South Bend. He's from Cameroon, a country that borders Nigeria. He's been following the story of the kidnapped girls closely.

"It was so heartbreaking, I couldn't have ever imagined of such horrendous acts so I just wept and prayed that they may be returned safely," Atem said.

He and dozens of others walked in unity today with signs in hand.

"It says social workers challenge social injustice and in addition to that we have signs for everyone that say 'bring back our girls,'" said John Gallagher, an IUSB social work professor.

They stopped in front of campus and took photos.. Those photos will be posted on various Facebook pages including IUSB's.

"People throughout the world will hear about us, will see what we look like, will hear about our university and there's support everywhere throughout this country so social media is definitely a great avenue that social workers use to show we care," Gallagher said.

In the center of that photo is Atem, who is doing what he can to help end the kidnapping.

"My message is for them is to endeavor, to try as hard as possible for them to be returned quickly," he said.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
