
The wife of a walker who was killed after falling while climbing England's highest mountain has told of her heartbreak.

Malcolm Blowman, 67, of Little Carlton, near Louth, had set out alone at 8.45am on May 14 to climb the famous Scafell Pike in the Lake District.

His wife, Marion Blowman, who was with him for a caravan holiday, called the police after he failed to return.

Around 20 rescue workers and an RAF search and rescue team scoured the mountains with the aid of thermal imaging cameras.

Mr Blowman's body was eventually found at around 11am the following morning. He had fallen 200ft down a gully.

"He liked to give himself a challenge. He seemed to be drawn to the mountains every so often,"

"I first phoned him at about midday to see how he was getting on but his phone went straight to voice mail. I wasn't unduly concerned because I thought there would be no signal," said Marion Blowman, who was married to Malcolm for 43 years.

"I phoned him every hour and started to get really worried. I thought something may have happened. At about 7pm, I thought: 'It will start getting dark'. I phoned the police.

"They found him at about 11am. They knew it was him because he had his wallet with him.

"They used a Sea King helicopter to winch him out.That was ironic because he had been a helicopter pilot himself.

"He loved flying. It was helicopters to the last."

Mr Blowman was born in Bridlington and lived in Driffield, East Yorkshire, before training at the Army apprentice school in Harrogate.

He joined the Army in December 1962, becoming part of the Royal Signals.

He learned to fly while in the Army and took part in shooting competitions. He became a top shooter, including being one of the Army Eight.

Mr Blowman was on Great and Little Carlton Parish Council for years, helping set up a neighbourhood watch scheme in Little Carlton.

He was a member of Mensa.

Mr Blowman also leaves behind two children, Richard, 42, and Catherine, 39.

Catherine said: "He showed us right from wrong. He had always been committed to my mum. He was a good dad and a good husband."
