
Tuesday 20 May 2014 11:35 a.m.

I've seen the battlefields of Monte Cassino, I've walked the rows and rows of graves of the Commonwealth soldiers who died there and I've met the veterans who survived - yet I still have very little understanding of the horrors that took place in this small Italian town.

The numbers tell one story - 2176 New Zealanders killed in the Italian Campaign - but the veterans know the real story behind the facts and figures.

It was an emotional journey for the 39 who were deemed fit and healthy enough to make the Government-funded trip back. Around 100 applied but many of them, now in their late 80s and 90s, were just too frail.

It's a demanding schedule for men of that age - physically, but most of all emotionally. It was heart-wrenching to see men break down in tears at the sight of the Cassino railway station - men who may never have cried in front of their families in their whole lives.

The Cassino railway station was the site of one of the most brutal battles of the Campaign. It has changed a lot since the veterans last saw it. But the memories are still just as vivid.

Take Harry Taylor, for example. A jolly man, the kind that hasn't lost his cheeky sense of humour. Nearly 91 and still sharp as a tack.

When he arrived at the Cassino railway station for the commemorative service he was still laughing and joking with me when out of the blue, he became teary and choked up. It caught him by surprise and he spent the rest of the trip apologising to me for getting emotional.

It's ridiculous that he felt he should apologise but that's just the kind of men they are.

He went back to the railway station the following day - without the crowds and without the cameras - to have a moment there by himself. I'm so glad he was able to do that.

I also got to meet a man my grandma plays bowls with back at Snells Beach, north of Auckland. She writes letters to me in London and kept reminding me her friend Dick Maynard would be on the trip. Had I met Dick at the bowls club, I would probably have been oblivious to the stories he had to tell.

Another veteran, John Bell, explained to me that it was nice to be back with his former comrades because they could talk about their memories and know instantly what the reality of the situation was like.

That's why I say that I feel like I still have virtually no understanding of what really went on. We can't possibly imagine unless we were there.

But that's the thing - the veterans don't want this to ever happen again. They made the sacrifice so that hopefully we don't ever have to understand.
