
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I’m Professor and Chair of the Department of Economics at LIU Post in New York. I’ve published several articles in professional journals and magazines, including Barron’s, The New York Times, Japan Times, Newsday, Plain Dealer, Edge Singapore, European Management Review, Management International Review, and Journal of Risk and Insurance. I’ve have also published several books, including Collective Entrepreneurship, The Ten Golden Rules, WOM and Buzz Marketing, Business Strategy in a Semiglobal Economy, China’s Challenge: Imitation or Innovation in International Business, and New Emerging Japanese Economy: Opportunity and Strategy for World Business. I’ve traveled extensively throughout the world giving lectures and seminars for private and government organizations, including Beijing Academy of Social Science, Nagoya University, Tokyo Science University, Keimung University, University of Adelaide, Saint Gallen University, Duisburg University, University of Edinburgh, and Athens University of Economics and Business. Interests: Global markets, business, investment strategy, personal success.

Starbucks Starbucks is a great company by all sorts of metrics. It has captured and captivated consumers of all ages. It has contributed to the local and global  community. It has handsomely rewarded partners and stockholders. That’s why it’s a case study for business strategists and marketers.

But it has also made strategic mistakes along the way that have undermined its  core business and growth momentum.

One of these mistakes was the introduction of warm breakfast, like cheese  sandwiches, back in 2003.

Perhaps the magic was in boosting spending per customer. But Starbuck’s strategy undermined the brand as a coffee-place, and eventually impacted traffic into Starbuck stores.

That’s why the company corrected this strategic mistake by discontinuing breakfast sandwiches in its North American stores in 2008.

Now Starbucks is about to make another strategic mistake, in my opinion: introduce alcohol to its stores.

On the surface it sounds like a sound move. Alcohol is a high margin item and sells in the evening when coffee traffic evaporates. Nonetheless, the smell of alcohol that may end up on the tables and floor may be carried on to the next morning, when people like me come in to enjoy a cup of coffee, read the newspaper or write an article — in fact, that’s where I wrote this piece.

Compounding the problem, the alcohol crowd doesn’t mix well with the coffee and TEAVANA crowd.

Simply put, Starbucks cannot turn from a third place to everyone’s place, without risking loss of focus and fractionalizing of its market. That would certainly provide an opening to companies like Panera Bread, which provides a similar environment to Starbucks in its new stores.

Hello Starbucks, if you want to sell alcohol, you should at least serve coffee blended cocktails or crafted alcoholic coffee drinks, stay with your focus in coffee should be a plus. Don’t serve wine and whisky, please, it does not work.

I agree with this article to an extent. If alcohol is going to be sold at Starbucks it has to be implemented correctly. It has to appeal to a mellow after work or weekend crowd looking for a kick in their coffee or a specialty microbrew type of beer. If Starbucks starts to appeal to a rowdy, late night crowd, I believe it could be disaterous for the company. With that being said, I believe in the starbuck’s business model and strategy and I do believe that they will implement this properly. With that being said, I am holding firm on owning stock in Starbucks.

Interesting points, Lindsay.

It wasn’t just the cheese sandwiches, Tony. It was a combination of factors that drove the stock lower.

I don’t understand the connection being made here as Starbucks continues to sell breakfast sandwiches and that doesn’t seem to be hurting their business. I agree with the coffee drink type connection as a better strategy, and would also suggest the possibility of increased liability if serving any type of alcohol.
