
News that 10 detainees have been repatriated from US custody in Afghanistan is heart-warming. Yet the Pakistani government persistently fails to uphold the rights of its citizens.

Not much has changed for these detainees since their detention in Bagram. They are currently being held incommunicado, without charge and without access to their families or their legal representatives. The stigma of being ‘war on terror’ detainees will take years to wear off (if at all).

In October 2010, the Justice Project Pakistan (JPP) filed a petition before the Lahore High Court compelling the Pakistani government to repatriate its citizens illegally held by the US government in Bagram Prison, Afghanistan. Despite the fact the prison has been running for 11 years, the Pakistani government took little action to ensure justice for its citizens. Only the orders of Justice Khalid Mehmood Khan have brought much needed relief to the detainees.

The government of Pakistan has, once again, failed to notify the Lahore High Court, the families or the lawyers of their return. Nor have they disclosed the location of the detainees since their repatriation. In doing so, the Pakistani government has resorted to the stale tactics it adopted when six detainees were repatriated in November 2013 from Bagram. Perhaps they have forgotten that those attempts at concealment proved futile.

Justice Khalid Mehmood Khan of the Lahore High Court determinedly pursued government officials to disclose the location of the repatriated detainees to the point of summoning the interior secretary to appear in person before the Lahore High Court. Needless to say, once the interior ministry disclosed the location of the detainees, unfettered access was granted by the Court to their families as well as their lawyers from JPP.

It remains to be seen how the government will behave in the hearing today. Once again, it was an international body like the ICRC that had informed the families of their arrival, even though the ICRC does not partake in such detention-to-detention transfers. With the lack of involvement of neutral bodies such as the ICRC ensuring human rights standards are met, the process of repatriation devolves entirely to the US and Pakistani governments whose hands are already sullied with grave human rights abuses.

One victim of the Pakistani government’s abject failure is Yunus Rahmatullah.

Though born to Pakistani parents, Yunus spent much of his life with his family in the Gulf. In 2004, he travelled to Iraq to find work. After the coalition invasion and occupation ravaged the country, lucrative construction opportunities arose. Yunus was hoping to benefit from one such opportunity to lift himself and his family out of poverty. Put simply: he was an economic migrant.

In February 2004, he was staying in a house on the outskirts of Baghdad with a number of other Pakistani citizens. UK forces raided the house he was staying in and captured him, based on flawed and erroneous intelligence. They believed the compound to hold dangerous foreign militants – but it was only home to men hoping to earn a living from the latest western military misadventure in Iraq.

British troops blindfolded Yunus, punched and kicked him, and hit him with the butt of their rifles. He was thrown in the back of a military vehicle and driven to a camp. He was detained in Iraq at the Camp Nama, a joint US-UK base. He was possibly also detained in the Abu Ghraib prison, notorious for detainee abuse.

While in Iraq he was held in isolation, often blindfolded, and subjected to a myriad of torture methods including: exposure to extreme temperature, whipping, having his head submerged in water, being forced to remain naked for several weeks, severe beatings and being hung from the ceiling by his wrists.

Whatever progress the government has achieved in securing Yunus’ release, is erased by his current incommunicado detention. He has never been charged with a crime or tried. There is no justification, in law or otherwise, to hold these people away from their families. In that respect, the Pakistani government is no different from its US counterparts. Even now that they are home, these ten Pakistani men have simply replaced one Bagram for another.

Ensuring detainees are freed from US custody in Afghanistan is only the first step in undoing the wrong that has been done to them for years. The government must ensure that the repatriation process is transparent. Detainees’ families, their lawyers and the Lahore High Court must be informed before detainees are transferred from Bagram and they must be given immediate and unfettered access once the detainees have returned home.

The government must restore the dignity that has been denied to these citizens for so long. It can start by disclosing the location of their detention, ending their incommunicado detention and putting a stop to the flagrant abuse of their fundamental rights.
