
The Universiti Teknologi Mara (UiTM) seminar on Allah and Christology was necessary to combat Christianisation in the country, controversial lecturer Dr Ridhuan Tee Abdullah said today.

In his column today titled “The real enemy is before your eyes” published by Sinar Harian, Ridhuan wrote that the contents of the seminar were nowhere as terrible as the criticism Church leaders have levelled towards Muslims.

“Just look at how they have attacked UiTM. Everyone knows that the seminar was just a response to their deliberate Christianisation process. UiTM is far more transparent than the ‘ultra kiasu’ who attack from the shadows.

“The bashing (in the seminar) was not as harsh as a priest’s speech in a church, which I have previously exposed. It’s a pity no Muslim has ever visited a church to see how they condemn Islam,” Ridhuan (pic) wrote in the Malay-language daily.

Ridhuan’s contention comes as The Malaysian Insider today reported that the Bishops Conference of Indonesia had confirmed that the identity of one of the speakers as a former Catholic priest turn Muslim was false.

Insan L S Mokoginta told 1,000-odd students at the controversial seminar on May 6 that he was a former Catholic priest who converted to Islam in 1976.

But the Bishops Conference of Indonesia executive secretary Father Edy Purwanto revealed he had no information or data on Mokoginta.

Ridhuan urged Muslims to attend churches themselves to monitor the religious activities there.

He said school teachers should also be serious in handling the alleged Christianisation movement, as the country’s laws do not allow other religious teaching to be spread to Muslims.

“Why has no police report been made? Because we do not know what is happening in churches. I hope there are Muslims who can disguise themselves and sneak into churches to hear what they discuss.

“I urge all school teachers to monitor Muslim students influenced by this teaching. It is not that we are afraid they will be Christianised, but the laws do not allow them to do so,” he said, adding that he had received reports from parents on Christianisation efforts in schools.

The Universiti Pertahanan Nasional Malaysia lecturer said the “ultra kiasu” were infringing on the rights of the Muslims as well as the country’s laws because they were aware that Malays were unable to respond for fear of losing power.

He added that non-Muslims had no reason to hate Muslims in Malaysia, as they were not oppressed and were given the freedom to earn a livelihood.

“I am very confused as to why they hate Islam so much. Give me an example of a Muslim country that oppresses the non-Muslims. Often we see Muslims becoming the victims in non-Muslim countries.

“The question is, how are they so strong that they are able to oppose Islamic laws which have nothing to do with them? Why do they hate Islam so much, but at the same time rake profit from Muslims?” he wrote.

At the seminar on the use of the word Allah and Christology, several speakers had warned Muslims against the threat of Christianisation.

Several police reports had been lodged in Selangor and Sarawak, while last Friday, police recorded the statements of two complainants from Selangor.

The complainants said that the seminar was nothing more than “Christian-bashing” and further questioned why the public varsity allowed such a seminar to be held on its premises.

They also noted that no expert on Christianity was invited to the seminar to defend the religion.

UiTM said the seminar was organised to increase the understanding of Muslims about the issues concerning the hotly debated use of the word Allah by non-Muslims.

The seminar was jointly organised by the Academy of Contemporary Islamic Studies, UiTM, Warisan Ibnu Aaby and the Selangor Islamic Council with the support of Utusan Malaysia, Kumpulan Karangkraf, TV Al-Hijrah, Zikay Group and Pantai Bharu Group of Companies. – May 19, 2014.
