
The meeting is being organised by Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in close collaboration with its global and regional partners and Oman's Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. It is expected to establish coordinated initiatives among countries for effective monitoring of the virus in animals as recent findings showed camels as a possible source of infection. The meeting will also analyse the recent developments in diagnostic and surveillance tools to support animal investigations, identify and agree on actions that will minimise disease spread and work out ways for intra-regional cooperation in investigations, research and knowledge sharing.

An official from the Regional Office for the Near East and North Africa, FAO, speaking to Muscat Daily, said the sultanate is actively supporting the meeting.

On FAO's approach towards the growing MERS concern, the official said, ''FAO is regularly monitoring the situation, supporting the analysis of available test results and providing support to investigate possible sources of the virus. Crucial is the role the organisation is playing to promote information sharing among concerned countries to collate findings and coordinate actions on the matter. The regional consultation in Muscat is a result of this coordination.''

Listing steps taken to control spread of MERS-CoV, the official added that FAO, in coordination with UN agencies and international organisations, fielded missions to the affected Gulf countries to find research gaps and gather info on the virus.

''Missions to Saudi Arabia and Qatar were performed and reports on them are readily available online. In March 2014, FAO was part of a WHO mission to Riyadh on MERS-CoV. The aim of the meeting was to develop a case-control study protocol (human) with questionnaire that addresses animal-contact issues,'' he said.

The FAO has said that specific advice on biosecurity and preventive measures to avoid MERS-CoV transmission from its possible animal source is difficult to establish as camels do not have noticeable clinical signs.

It has said further studies are needed to verify the potential role of camels as a source of infection and to determine how the virus passes from its natural host or reservoir to humans.

The strength of the association between infection in camels and humans must be assessed to devise a strategy, FAO has said, adding that general statements suggesting that humans stay away from camels are not warranted.

Until more information on transmission to humans becomes available, general hygiene practices and proper food preparation, including cooking and pasteurisation of milk of animals (including camels) for human consumption must be observed to protect humans against a wide range of diseases from animals, animal products and the environment.
