
Superheroes seem to be everywhere! We see them larger than life on the silver screen, in their original form in comic books and lining the toy aisles in stores. Many children love to dress up and adopt their favorite superhero personas. Some parents might worry that such play fosters aggression, but research shows just the opposite. According to Shelley Butler and Deb Kratz, authors of “The Field Guide to Parenting," “Healthy rough and tumble, free play leads to greater skills and experience in handling adversity without aggression in teens and adults. Further, play deprivation has been found to be a factor in juvenile and adult violence. Play may actually prevent violence.” Such play also cultivates your child’s creativity and social skills.

Superheroes seem to be everywhere! We see them larger than life on the silver screen, in their original form in comic books and lining the toy aisles in stores. Many children love to dress up and adopt their favorite superhero personas. Some parents might worry that such play fosters aggression, but research shows just the opposite. According to Shelley Butler and Deb Kratz, authors of “The Field Guide to Parenting," “Healthy rough and tumble, free play leads to greater skills and experience in handling adversity without aggression in teens and adults. Further, play deprivation has been found to be a factor in juvenile and adult violence. Play may actually prevent violence.” Such play also cultivates your child’s creativity and social skills.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Get their pictures taken in a heroic pose.

Complete our obstacle course.

Match the right hero to the right villain in our matching game.

Bowl for super villains.

The library has superhero books and DVDs, too, so check out our collection . We even have books about superhero pets!

You have viewed your 10 free stories.  You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and enjoy unlimited access to local news, sports, photos and thoughtful analysis to help make sense of it all. If you need help, please contact our customer service office at 573-815-1600.

FACT CHECK See inaccurate information in this story? Tell us here .

Dad:  "You won't ever grow up on us will you?"

Kinley: "I will, Dad.  It's called 'That's just life.'"

Getting your house cleaned just got more affordable!
