
Headquartered out of Temple Texas, with operations also in Houston and Bryan, Jack Hilliard services retailers such as 7-11, Circle K, HEB, Stripes, Cefco as well as Fort Hood. Eric Fowler, DNA's President and CEO, said, "Being able to have our brand distributed by such a well-respected distributor in Jack Hilliard, speaks volumes for DNA and we could not be more pleased. Hilliard's area of coverage and effectiveness in the market helps us immensely as we continue to expand our Texas distribution. We appreciate the opportunity Jack Hilliard Distributing has given us by adding DNA to their portfolio of products and we look forward to a mutually beneficial relationship as we expand the DNA brand." Fowler continued, "Now that the warmer weather is upon us, Jack Hilliard is the first of many distributors that we anticipate will be coming on board in the very near term. This past severe winter was extremely challenging for us as a company. We found the unseasonably cold and disruptive weather negatively impacted our sales efforts and definitely hampered our ability to gain distribution. We were not alone as evidenced by major retailers flagging this past colder than normal winter for weak sales. Distributors as well were affected by not being able to move out product and bring in new items. As DNA's new President and CEO I can say that I am very optimistic in the vision I have for DNA taking shape as the months progress. We expect to have much more positive news to report going forward."

Jack Hilliard Sr. began selling Anheuser-Busch products in 1948. In 1958, Mr, Hilliard became an independent wholesaler for Anheuser-Busch products, building a warehouse distribution complex in Temple, his territory grew to include Bell, Coryelle, Miliam, and Falls counties. Then with a small group of Texas wholesalers, he went to St. Louis in 1964 to discuss with August Busch, Jr. the possibility of Anheuser-Busch opening a brewery in Texas. In July 1971, the Company purchased a second distributorship located in Bryan. In 1958, his son, Jack Hilliard Jr., started working with his dad and worked his way through the company, learning every position. In 1982, Jack Jr. began a term as President with his father serving as Chairman of the Board; preparing him to become the owner in 1986. As a family of employees, Jack Hilliard Distributing continues to grow servicing multiple locations distributing Anheuser-Busch products, along with a host of craft beers, and other beverages.

Eric Fowler has 30 years' experience in the beverage industry, serving in executive sales and marketing positions with several of the nation's beverage leaders including A&W Brands, Snapple, Cadbury Schweppes and Southeast Atlantic Beverage. Mr. Fowler began as Vice President of Sales and Marketing for DNA Brands in of 2013, and assumed his current position as President and CEO this past April 2014.

About DNA Brands, Inc.

DNA BRANDS, makes DNA Energy Drink ®, including Citrus flavor, which won the 2010 and 2012 best-tasting energy drink at the World Beverage Competition, along with Coffee Energy with Omega 3 Drink. DNA Energy Drink® is a proprietary blend of quality ingredients in several delicious flavors. DNA is a proud sponsor of many action sport teams consisting of top athletes from Sprint Car Racing, Motorcross, Surf, Wakeboard and Skateboard, and has received tremendous TV and media coverage.

Except for statements of historical fact, the matters discussed in this press release are forward-looking. "Forward-looking statements" describe future expectations, plans, results, or strategies and are generally preceded by words such as "future," "plan" or "planned," "expects" or "projected." These forward-looking statements reflect numerous assumptions and involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control that may cause actual results to differ materially from stated expectations. Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained herein include (i) the Company's ability to generate significant revenues from its new product line, (ii) the Company's ability to obtain adequate financing to achieve its business plan (iii) a decision by the Company's distributors to carry the Company's products (iv) acceptance by consumers of the Company new flavors and branding (v) launching of three new coffee drinks and re-ordering the new rebranded five energy drink flavors, and (vi) and other factors without limitation which are detailed in documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at SEC.gov.
