
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

Pfizer Inc. 's $117 billion pursuit of British drugmaker AstraZeneca PLC is likely to fail because British takeover law prohibits the U.S. firm from sweetening its offer after declaring it final, according to people familiar with the transaction.

AstraZeneca's board has rejected the improved proposal and has no plans to change that stance, said the people with knowledge of the situation. Pfizer can't increase that amount under takeover rules, so the deal is at a stalemate, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.

Many Target Corp. customers are ready to forgive and forget.

Following the holiday-season theft of 40 million payment-card numbers by hackers, only 7 percent of customers plan to reduce spending at the chain over the next year, according to a Bloomberg National Poll. The survey, conducted May 8-11, found that despite the turmoil, 85 percent of customers expect to shop about the same amount at the chain over the next year. Seven percent will spend more, and 7 percent will shop less. One percent had no opinion. The results had a margin of error of as much as 4.5 percentage points.

Google has bought Divide, a startup that helps companies manage the mobile devices that employees are increasingly relying upon to get their work done.

Financial terms of the acquisition announced Monday aren't being disclosed.

Google Inc. says Divide's technology will be used at companies whose employees use smartphones and tablets running on its Android software. More than 1 billion devices worldwide are powered by Android, making it the world's leading mobile operating system.

Divide, originally known as Enterproid, was founded four years ago by former Morgan Stanley executives who believed that the growing popularity of smartphones and tablets would drive more corporate demand for device-management tools.

GoPro Inc.'s cameras are made to withstand filming in waves, wind and snow. Now the company is set to brave investors after publicly filing for an initial offering.

The company disclosed its prospectus Monday with a $100 million placeholder, a figure used to calculate fees that will change. The San Mateo firm tapped JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Citigroup Inc. and Barclays PLC to manage the initial public offering, according to the regulatory filing. GoPro plans to use the proceeds from the IPO for general corporate purposes and to repay debt.

GoPro's cameras let action-sports enthusiasts from surfers to skiers to skydivers take professional-quality videos, many of which get posted on YouTube. GoPro's revenue jumped 87 percent last year to $985.7 million.

It says something about a company's place in popular culture when its signage get auctioned off by Bonhams.

The venerable British auction house, known for fine art and antiques, plans to auction two signs that once adorned the Cupertino headquarters of Apple Inc. Bids in the auction, scheduled for June 4, start at $10,000.

The signs will be instantly recognizable to anyone who remembers Apple's original 1980s heyday. Each has the simplified silhouette of an Apple that the company still uses today, but filled in with colored horizontal stripes that turn the fruit into a rainbow. Apple ditched the stripes in 1997, switching to today's familiar monochrome silhouette.

One of the signs is made of fiberglass, the other of stiff foam. The larger of the two, roughly 4 feet tall, used to grace the exterior of Building 3 on Apple's campus and could be seen from Interstate 280, according to Bonhams' website. Both were removed in 1997 and given to "a longtime Apple employee."

Groupon Inc. is expanding its in-store payments business with a new service that lets merchants identify customers with the company's coupons and enable them to pay for purchases using Apple's iPad mini.

The service, called Gnome, pronounced genome, lets local businesses process coupons without a printed or digital voucher, accept credit card payments and customize marketing campaigns for vendors to target specific customers, Groupon said in a statement Monday.

Merchants will pay Groupon a small monthly fee for the tablet and also a transaction charge. The introduction of the service follows more than a month of trials in five cities, where 98 to 99 percent of businesses approached decided to adopt the system, Groupon Chief Executive Officer Eric Lefkofsky said in an interview.

France's privacy watchdog said more citizens are asking for help getting their personal information removed from search engines such as those run by Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp., less than a week after the European Union 's top court ruled on a "right to be forgotten" online.

France's CNIL and Europe's other privacy watchdogs will discuss in a June meeting how they can enforce the ruling, President Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin said Monday in a conference. The EU's top court last week said citizens may ask search-engine owners to remove information and request that a court or data-protection authority step in if a company doesn't comply.
