
U.S. Army paratroopers with 2nd Squadron, 38th Cavalry Regiment descend to the ground after parachuting 1,000 feet from a U.S. Air Force C-130, May 12, as part of the squadron’s ongoing efforts to maintain airborne proficiency in unfamiliar areas like Kosovo. This is the squadron’s second airborne operation in Kosovo, and the first to use the Army’s MC-6 parachute system.

DAKOVICA, Kosovo - For the 36 Multinational Battle Group-East paratroopers from Kosovo Force who descended 1,000 feet using specialized parachutes onto Dakovica Airfield, May 12, the historical airborne operation was a first for even many of the unit’s seasoned jumpers.

Although the squadron had conducted airborne training last month at Camp Bondsteel, the first jump in Kosovo in over 10 years, in this jump the paratroopers used the U.S. Army’s MC-6 parachute, an advanced parachute system that is more maneuverable and allows a slower descent onto a drop zone.

The unit also coordinated for a U.S. Air Force C-130 aircraft to fly the soldiers to Dakovica Airfield drop zone, approximately 34 miles southwest from Kosovo’s capital, Pristina. The airfield is a former airbase operated by Kosovo Force and the Italian army. Although the air strip is now abandoned, it provided a distinct opportunity for soldiers to practice descending onto an unfamiliar drop zone.

The squadron commander said the jumpers’ unfamiliarity with the airfield allowed for lessons learned among the jumpmasters and Soldiers participating in the training operation.

Most of the Soldiers who participated in the airborne operation serve with the squadron’s Company C, a long-range surveillance company that provides reconnaissance capabilities to the U.S. Army’s III Corps. The C Company commander said the jump allowed his Soldiers to maintain their proficiency in safely and securely landing in locations vital to a military commander.

“I think the Soldiers see it as both a positive effect in sustaining our skills in airborne operations, but also positive in being able to use the capabilities of the parachute to ensure they can actually drop in an advantageous location,” Capt. Daniel Stephens said.

Stevens added the mission forced the company and squadron’s leaders to identify those Soldiers who had used steerable parachutes before. Using a steerable parachute allows paratroopers to avoid possible problems on the drop zone.

“We identified the right soldiers to jump, as it was a more challenging drop zone, so we identified the right soldiers who had the experience with steerable parachutes. The feedback was positive and it’s a challenging [drop zone]. There’s concrete, which typically paratroopers don’t want to land on, so with a steerable parachute, it lets you leverage the capabilities of the system while avoiding potential obstacles on the airfield,” Stephens said.

For Dakovica residents and city leaders, the exercise built relationships between Kosovo Force and citizens of Kosovo, as many of the local leaders marveled at the airborne operation.

Cogbill said airborne operations allow the U.S. military to seize an objective by force with as many as a brigade’s worth of Soldiers while giving the Department of Defense more combat power on the ground.

The squadron serves as the Forward Command Post for MNBG-E, headquartered in northern Kosovo, and responds as third responders to threats to a safe and secure environment and freedom of movement throughout Kosovo.

This work, MNBG-E paratroopers descend into western Kosovo, by CPT Kevin Sandell , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
