
A centuries old language that was close to extinction has been saved after the last two speakers decided to end a feud that has lasted decades.

Manuel Segovia, 78, and Isidro Velazquez, 72, stopped speaking to each other after a disagreement and it was feared that Ayapaneco could die out.

Ayapaneco is spoken at Ayapa, a village six miles east of Comalcalco, in Tabasco, Mexico.

Scroll down for video.

A film was made by Stanford University linguistic anthropologist Professor James A Fox that shows the emotional moment that Senor Segovia and Senor Velazquez made up their quarrel.

Prof Fox had gone to Mexico to remind the men of their responsibility to secure the future of the language.

The linguist had been working for nearly 20 years on the preservation of Ayapaneco and other threatened indigenous languages.

Vodafone also helped the locals to build a school where children could be taught their native language and even named it Ayapa: Manuel and Isidro's School of Ayapaneco.

A festival to celebrate the opening of the school was the first time many people were able to hear the town's only native speakers talk to each other in Ayapaneco.

Senor Segovia speaks to his wife and son in his native tongue. They understand him but, other than a few words, are not thought to speak much of the language.

Kayardild is spoken fluently by fewer than 10 people – all old Aboriginals – in Queensland, Australia.

Lengilu is a language spoken by just four people in the north-eastern area of Kalimantan, Indonesia.

Just three people reportedly speak Mabire in the Oulek village of Chad. The local chief is the only Mabire speaker in his village so there is a doubt whether he is still fluent.

This language is spoken by just two old people in the Kola peninsula in the north-west of Russia. By the end of the 19th Century, there were around 450 people who could speak Ter Sami but it was proscribed in schools in the 1930s.

Originally the language of nomadic hunters in present-day Chile, the last four speakers live in Patagonia, Argentina.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
