
The ruling CPP has released its provisional breakdown of results from Sunday’s provincial, municipal and district council elections, showing that the party won 2,543—about 77 percent—of the total 3,324 council seats up for grabs.

On Sunday, commune councilors around the country—who were themselves elected by popular vote in June 2012—voted for the councils of the district, province or municipality they fall under.

Calculations of provisional results released by the National Election Committee on Sunday indicated that the CPP secured 8,379 votes to the CNRP’s 2,959 across the districts, but the NEC has not yet officially put the data through the election formula to determine the seats won by each party.

The CPP’s figures, released on its website Monday, show that the party won 2,237 district council seats to the CNRP’s 683 seats. Opposition leader Sam Rainsy had said at a press conference Sunday evening that his party’s own calculations indicated it had won just 677 district council seats.

Mr. Rainsy also said Sunday that the opposition accepted the results.

Besides the two major parties, Funcinpec picked up 19 district council seats across the country, while the League for Democracy Party picked up a single seat on a district council in Siem Reap province.

Of the 393 seats available across the 24 provincial councils and the municipal council of Phnom Penh, the ruling CPP won 306 seats to the CNRP’s 86, according to the ruling party’s provisional calculations.

Funcinpec picked up the remaining seat, and will have a single representative on the 17-seat Banteay Meanchey provincial council.

On the Phnom Penh municipal council, the CPP will be represented by 15 councilors to the CNRP’s six. Across the city’s 12 districts, the CPP picked up 155 seats to the CNRP’s 61.

On the provincial councils, the opposition fared best in Kompong Cham, where it picked up nine seats to the CPP’s 12, according to the ruling party’s results. In Prey Veng, the next closest, the margin was 12 to seven.

A group of Kompong Chhnang villagers in a fight for land with the wife of Mines and Energy Minister Suy Sem delivered petitions to the Ministry of Justice and National Assembly on Monday, one of five communities from across the country that have recently traveled to Phnom Penh seeking the government’s help in settling their festering land disputes.
