
Law enforcement authorities in 16 countries, including Canada, have cracked down on the spread of a piece of malware used to hack into personal computers and spy on people.

At least 97 people were arrested, 359 homes were searched and 1,100 data storage units seized around the world, according to Europol, a European Union law enforcement co-ordination agency. The RCMP says 16 homes in Quebec were searched and computers seized last week but no arrests have yet been made.

Constable Philippe Gravel, an investigator with the RCMP’s Integrated Technological Crime Unit in Quebec, says the software undoubtedly made it to other parts of Canada, but no search warrants have yet been executed outside Quebec. The FBI only shared information with international agencies including the RCMP earlier this year after several years of investigation, Constable Gravel said.

The FBI arrested three members of the Blackshades organization, including the two alleged creators of the remote access tool, Alex Yucel, a citizen of Sweden, and Arizona resident Michael Hogue.

An indictment against Mr. Yucel unsealed Monday accuses him of conspiracy to commit computer hacking, distribution ofmalicious software, identity theft, fraud and theft.

A third man from the organization, Brendan Johnson, is accused of helping to sell and distribute the software.

Two users were also charged by the FBI. New Jersey resident Marlen Rappa is accused of using the software to spy on at least 45 people using their own web cameras and to steal files and photos of at least 95 others over two years starting in February, 2012. New York resident Kyle Fedorek is accused of stealing account information of at least 400 people.

The underground online world has been abuzz for much of May about computer seizures from people who purchased the Blackshades software. In one recent case in the Netherlands, an 18-year-old man is accused of using the malware to infect at least 2,000 computers. He allegedly controlled victim’s webcams to take pictures of women and girls, according to Europol.

The malware was not only used to spy on people. It was also used in bank fraud and extortion attempts, according to the FBI and other international law enforcement agencies.

© Thomson Reuters 2012.

All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content, or for any actions taken in reliance on such content. ‘Thomson Reuters’ and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.

Selected data supplied by Thomson Reuters.© Thomson Reuters Limited. Click for Restrictions .

© Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
