
Senior Master Sgt. Karen S. Miller, now retired, stands with Senior Airman Tyler Mohr, a 445th Airlift Wing member named the 2013 Air Force Reserve Command Outstanding Airman of the Year.

Senior Airman Tyler Mohr apparently wasn’t always so gung-ho about reporting early for duty.

Times change.

Mohr, 30, a 445th Airlift Wing command post airman at Wright-Patterson and son of a retired Air Force major, was selected as the Air Force Reserve Command 2013 Outstanding Airman of the Year after a little more than three years in uniform.

“After I graduated, I wanted something more in life,” said Mohr, of Cincinnati and a civilian contract administrator with the Defense Contract Management Agency.

The Air Force Reserve awarded honors to the “best of the best” in the categories of first sergeant, senior non-commissioned officer, non-commissioned officer and airman in an April ceremony in San Antonio, Texas. Mohr was chosen for the airman honor among the thousands who serve. The Air Force Reserve has more than 70,000 serving in uniform.

He helps oversee the command post to ensure C-17 Globemaster III flights complete missions without incident.

The senior airman attends weekend drills twice a month, serving in the command post one weekend, and on the alternate weekend preparing young recruits for boot camp and technical school. He volunteers to serve in the base honor guard and travels throughout Ohio and out of state to perform ceremonial duties at funerals. The enlisted boot camp honor graduate has ambitions to become a commissioned officer already having earned bachelor’s degrees at North Dakota State and Park University, and a master’s degree from Central Michigan University.

He volunteered to deploy to Romania, his first overseas deployment since he joined in 2011.

Mohr transferred to the 445th Airlift Wing after a stint in the North Dakota Air National Guard in Fargo when his former organization lost its flying mission.

Karen S. Miller, a retired 445th Airlift Wing senior master sergeant, nominated Mohr for a unit airman of the quarter honor, the first step to the top award.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
