
Sarawak is demanding an increase of oil royalty payment from 5% to 20% from Putrajaya and Petronas. – The Malaysian Insider file pic, May 19, 2014.DAP will crank up pressure in Parliament on Putrajaya in a bid to increase oil and gas royalty payment to the Sarawak government.

State DAP chief Chong Chieng Jen said he would table a motion to get Putrajaya to support the Sarawak assembly’s resolution to increase royalty payment from 5% to 20%.

Chong said today support for the motion in Parliament, which meets from June 10, would force Putrajaya and Petronas to open talks.

On May 6, Sarawak lawmakers, in a landmark decision, cast aside partisan politics to agree unanimously to pass a resolution supporting the increase in the royalty.

It said it needed more funds, “above and over” the annual development funds, to accelerate development programmes in the state's rural areas.

Chong, the Bandar Kuching MP, in his motion would echo the state assembly's view that the current 5% it received were grossly low and unfair in view that oil and gas were Sarawak's natural resources and the level of development in the state that was as large as the peninsula was 20 years behind the peninsula.

He said if the motion was moved, there was a great chance the resolution would be passed with a simple majority.

He said all 89 Pakatan Rakyat MPs – that is if they retained their Teluk Intan and Bukit Gelugor seats in upcoming by-elections – would support the motion to back their electoral promise to increase the oil and gas royalty for Sarawak and Sabah.

With the expected support of the 27 Barisan Nasional MPs from Sarawak and “maybe a few from Sabah”, Chong said Parliament would support the motion by a simple majority even if peninsula-based BN MPs voted against it.

Chong said getting the motion moved faced some tough hurdle which Putrajaya could use to block it “from seeing the light of day”.

To get the motion get some “preferential treatment”, Chong said he would write to the minister in charge of parliament, Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Datuk Seri Shahidan Kassim.

“I hope he pushes the motion up and over some government business,” Chong added.

A Sabah member of parliament two weeks ago hit out at his state government and BN assemblyman in opting for partisan politics rather than the interests of the state when the motion to seek higher oil and gas royalty was thrown out by the assembly.

Penampang MP Darell Leiking said they should emulate what the Sarawak assemblymen did. – May 19, 2014.
