
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

MOBILE, Ala. -- Thousands of men and women who served in the United States military don't have a safe place to sleep at night.

Many don't want to be found, but others just don't know the help that is available to them according to Kelly Estle with the Gulf Coast VA. Estle serves as the Healthcare for Homeless Veterans Coordinator in Mobile.

Estle said she will do whatever it takes to help our veterans, even if it means tracking them down on the street.

Joe Carr served in the U.S. Army for four years and saw 18 months of combat in Vietnam as a tank company commander. when he got out of the Army, Carr got his law degree and for 35 years worked with Legal Services in Mobile helping indigents with civil cases.

Carr said a couple of years ago he fell off the wagon, his wife became ill and the money they had dwindled. Eventually, Carr said he ended up on the streets.

"I was a mess. I was really sick," Carr remembers.

Carr's trips to the Salvation Army eventually brought Estle into his life. The Salvation Army called Estle and said they believed Carr was a veteran and could use the VA's help.

Carr said one day a gentleman at the Salvation Army found him sitting outside and said, "there's a very nice woman and she's looking for you. Would you like to meet her?"

Carr agreed and Estle didn't let him out of her sight for three solid days as she did all she could to help him as quickly as possible.

"She saved my life. I was pretty depressed," Carr said. "Thanks to Kelly I'm still here, high and dry," Carr said.

Estle helped Carr get into the VA Hospital in Biloxi as soon as possible. There Carr got help for his addiction and PTSD.

"It was like a very protected environment. I needed that," Carr said.

Carr said he never knew the VA could offer the help that they did. All he remembered of the VA after getting out of the military was getting a loan for a house and being able to use the GI bill to help with law school.

Today, Estle said the VA makes sure military members know of the services available when they transition from active duty to civilian life.

Carr appreciates all of Estle's hard work to get him the help he needed.

"I'm nobody special. I just fell off the wagon," Carr said.

If you are or know a homeless Veteran in the Mobile area who needs support, call VA's free Help for Homeless Veterans hotline at 1-877-4AID-VET (877-424-3838), 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The Homeless Veterans staff at the Mobile Community Based Outpatient Clinic is also ready to help. The Mobile CBOC is located at 1504 Springhill Ave, Mobile, AL, 36604; phone: 251-219-3900 or toll free, 1-888-201-0110.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
