
Published: May 14, 2014 Updated: May 19, 2014  8:38 a.m.

Pharmacists planning a strike Monday have canceled the planned work stoppage, according to an electronic news release issued by Kaiser Permanente.

The release, dated Monday, states that the Guild for Professional Pharmacists and Kaiser "remain in contract negotiations."

"All Kaiser Permanente members can continue having their prescription needs met at their local Kaiser Permanente pharmacy," the release states.

The release is echoed by a statement on Kaiser's website. No statement was apparent on the guild's site.

Kaiser Permanente has warned insured members that it might have to shut down most of its pharmacies in Southern California starting Monday because its 1,400 pharmacists in the region are threatening to walk off their jobs.

The pharmacists are demanding the restoration of a pension plan they lost three years ago, health benefit guarantees for part-time workers, and changes in work procedures that they believe endanger patients’ safety, said Robin Borden, president of the Guild for Professional Pharmacists, which represents the group.

If they do strike, the pharmacists will picket Monday at all the Kaiser hospitals, including ones in Anaheim, Irvine, Los Angeles and West Los Angeles, Borden said. There is no end date for the planned strike, she said.

Kaiser sent notices to its members on Tuesday notifying them of the potential pharmacy shutdown. If it happens, Kaiser said, all medical facilities will remain open and appointments will not be canceled. It urged people to fill prescriptions before Monday but said they could still do so after that, over the phone, online or at outside pharmacies that are not part of Kaiser.

Kaiser said it has made arrangements with seven outside pharmacy chains: CVS, Ralphs, Rite Aid, Target, Vons, Walgreens and Walmart.

Kaiser Permanente has 3.7 million insured people in Southern California who could potentially be affected by the strike. That includes over 450,000 in Orange County, 1.7 million in Los Angeles County, and a combined 835,000 in Riverside and San Bernardino.

Borden said Kaiser took away the pharmacists’ pensions three years ago, telling them that other employee groups would also have their pensions taken away. But three years later, that still has not happened, she said. So far, Borden said, Kaiser “is not engaging us in a conversation” about that.

Another complaint of the pharmacists, Borden said, is that Kaiser has resorted to hiring almost exclusively part-time and per diem employees but is not giving them the 20 hours a week they need to qualify for health benefits.

The pharmacists also have a quarrel with Kaiser’s policy of emphasizing speed in filling prescriptions, which they think is not in the interest of patient safety. In particular, the pharmacists say they are being encouraged to bypass computer screens that show drug interactions in order to expedite the filling process.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Register publications without any notification or payment.
