
"The decision today by the European Union's Court of Justice that Google must remove links to accurate news stories is staggering, in part because it finds a legal right within Europe to demand that links be removed even though they are to accurate publications of newsworthy events. I am sympathetic with the desire not to have certain information appear online, but this approach is like a child playing peek-a-boo, confident that he is not being watched because he has covered his own eyes. It creates an unworkable situation in which online service providers now have some process for determining when and under what conditions to remove links to material that any European finds objectionable."

According to Cate, an internationally recognized expert in on cybersecurity law and policy and personal privacy, the decision heightens the tension between the United States and Europe over the tension between privacy and freedom of expression and runs the risk of miring online service providers with potentially millions of requests to remove links to certain online information that will still be accessible via the Web and will still be linked outside of Europe. Cate is a member of the inaugural U.S. Department of Homeland Security Data Privacy and Integrity Committee Cybersecurity Subcommittee and one of the founding editors of the Oxford University Press journal International Data Privacy Law. He is available to discuss the EU's decision and its implications as well as other topics related to cybersecurity and privacy policy, both at home and abroad.

Figliola is available to discuss the impact of the 38 Studios bankruptcy on Rhode Island's finances and credit rating: "38 Studios is Rhode Island's Solyndra. Rhode Island foolishly gave away almost the whole store to a startup."

Figliola regularly appears in the media as a commentator on economic development. Prior to joining EGS, he was the youngest appointed deputy supervisor for the Town of Brookhaven, New York's second-largest municipality, where he was responsible for a staff of 500 employees and the town's economic and workforce development and energy initiatives. In that role, he managed a portfolio of expanding businesses generating over $1 billion in capital investments and secured over $300 million in government incentives for those businesses to expand and relocate.

"If you don't want it written about, don't let it come out of your mouth. Period."

Lampert is an expert on crisis communications and public relations for entertainers, athletes and high-profile matters. She is a frequent speaker and writer and has been quoted often on Penn State, Armstrong's doping, and other legal matters.

The phone call is still the preferred form of communication for the majority of adults according to a new survey conducted for Vonage by ORC International. When asked what type of communication they use the most, 56 percent of adults said a phone call. Texting was a distant second at 25 percent. And, when relaying a special moment or important news, an overwhelming number of adults -- 71 percent -- said a phone call is their first choice of communication if they can't meet in person. Says Goodstein: "There's nothing like hearing a loved one's voice when you can't be together, and this research shows that the majority of people feel the same way. When you have something important to share, you don't want the significance of your news to fall flat with a text or an email. With a phone call, friends and family are able to hear the excitement in your voice and share in the emotion of the moment."

See more listings here.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
