
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

In what's believed to be the first such occurrence since the repeal of "don't ask, don't tell," in 2011, a same-sex spouse of a U.S. Army soldier killed in Afghanistan has been awarded survivor benefits through the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Army National Guard Staff Sgt. Tracy Dice Johnson's wife, Army National Guard Staff Sgt. Donna Johnson, was killed Oct. 1, 2012 by a suicide bomber. Tracy Johnson had sought survivor benefits since that time and was notified last week she will receive the same benefits that heterosexual couples are entitled to.

The Johnsons are believed to be the first same-sex couple to suffer a casualty after the repeal of the law that barred gay and lesbian troops from openly serving in the military. Tracy Johnson, who lives in North Carolina, announced the VA decision last weekend at the American Military Partner Association's gala in Washington, DC.

"My hat's off to the VA," Johnson told Army Times. "It was a long, drawn-out process, but at the end of the day, hearts and minds prevailed."

Johnson said she received delayed notification of Donna's death because at the time the military did not recognize their union. She applied for survivor benefits but they were initially denied by the VA, even after the Defense of Marriage Act – which defined marriage as only between a man and a woman – was overturned.

"After the review of the case, the Department of Veterans Affairs has decided to retroactively recognize me," Johnson said.

Among the payments she will receive will be monthly indemnity payments of $1,215, as well as medical, education and other benefits. Those benefits will be paid retroactively to Donna's death, even though that occurred a year before the Supreme Court was declared invalid.

Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy Rosemary Freitas Williams said the recent changes in military culture recognizes that the services are "bolstered by the strength of its families."

 "Our military will no longer be deprived of the talents and skills of patriotic Americans just because they happen to be gay or lesbian," Williams said. "And now we can say of our military spouses and partners, 'Welcome aboard.'"

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
