
Foreign and local experts in oil and gas laws have listed the challenges and protection in the divestments by International Oil Companies (IOCs) both globally and in Nigeria and urged both the buyers and sellers to avoid unmanageable liabilities.

The stakeholders gathered recently in Lagos at an event with the theme “Pitfalls and Protection in Upstream Assets Acquisition,” put together by a Nigerian law firm, Olaniwon Ajayi, in collaboration with a London-based law firm, Clifford Chance.

In his opening speech, the Head of Oil and Gas Practice in Olaniwun Ajayi, Mr. Tominiyi Owolabi stated that the past 48 months has been a busy period in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry.

Citing a recent revelation by the Minister of Petroleum Resources, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke, Owolabi said by the end of this year, cumulative value of deals that will have been done in the sector within this period will be around $11.5billion and this will have led to the 22 oil blocks.

He also said that over 300,000 barrels per day worth of equity in onshore shallow water assets would have been sold within this period.

“The interesting thing is that these deals have led significantly to a great increase in the footprints of indigenous companies in the sector,” he added.

Owolabi listed the drivers of these divestments to include declining production, high cost of operations, global capital reallocation and uncertainty surrounding the timing and impact of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).

According to them, the principle implies that liability will generally attach to company that caused the pollution or knowingly permitted it.

In his lead presentation, the Global Head of Oil and Gas in Clifford Chance, Mr. Stephen Fox listed the steps to be taken by the buyer to avoid pitfalls.

He said the buyer should address any historic incident upfront as part of sale process and diligence.

The buyer, he said, should also identify upfront, whether restructuring is required in order to manage any issues early in the process.

“Bear in mind that different potential buyers bring his own perspective on a deal, which will impact upon deal certainty and give rise to specific challenges,” he said.

On the issue of disclosure of information in the data room, Fox pointed out that if a buyer does not wish to accept the disclosure of information in a data room, the seller should bear in mind that the case law in this area is not yet settled.

He added that more often than not, the entire data room is disclosed against warranties, adding that particular care needs to be taken.

Fox charged the sellers to address certain questions such as “who are the bidders? What are the pressure points around a particular bidder? How much time are you spending with each bidder? What approach should you adopt a discussions with a bidder?"

He noted that the experience so far has shown that there is delayed and protracted closure of transactions, difficulty in raising funding and operatorship of assets not moving with the assets sold.

He stated that globally, 2013 was a challenging year with transaction value down by 22 per cent.

Fox however said Africa was a clear winner in terms of growth in 2013, pointing out that investors have remained cautious in 2014, as cost continues to escalate, while financing continues to be an issue.

Also speaking, the Clifford Chance’s Head of Oil and Gas in Russia, Mr. Louis Skyner noted that both the investors and the host governments have conflicting objectives, adding that good petroleum laws create a framework to balance the interest of governments and investors.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
