
To anyone familiar with the working environment of a small opinion magazine, the scenes from The People, a 1917 play by Susan Glaspell, will resonate. The play was given as  a reading , starring journalists, Sunday night at Joe’s Pub, part of the Public Theater’s Public Forum Drama Club series. And despite all the changes over the last century in the media, the economy, and politics, the challenges and tensions of running a journal of ideas remain mostly the same.

The reading was organized by Jeremy McCarter, who started his career at one such magazine, The New Republic. (McCarter is director of the theater’s “Public Forum” series, which brings together artists and thinkers to create a “theater of ideas.”) The cast of journalists assembled to read the play included many other alumni of TNR and other leading opinion journals both left and right, such as The Nation, The American Prospect, The Weekly Standard, and National Review. They were: David Brooks (the New York Times columnist), Michelle Goldberg (The Nation), Christopher Hayes (MSNBC),  Hendrik Hertzberg (The New Yorker), Maria Hinojosa (NPR),  Reihan Salam (National Review), Ben Smith (BuzzFeed), Bhaskar Sunkara (Jacobin), Garance Franke-Ruta (Yahoo! News), and cartoonist Tom Tomorrow. The performances were impressively adept for a group that had not acted since college, if ever. The readers, especially Salam, Brooks, and Sunkara, sounded fluid and conveyed the humor of the script.

—The art department and the editors waged constant war over the space to be allotted for words versus images in the magazine.

—There was constant concern over whether the magazine would be able to pay its bills and last another issue.

—The editors struggled with the balance between “frivolity” and “seriousness” in tone and subject matter.

—The editor struggles with feeling contempt for, and frustration with, the population-at-large, whose interests the magazine exists to advance.

Note: Several minutes will pass while the system is processing and posting your comment. Do not resubmit during this time or your comment will post multiple times. Reminder, comments longer than 4,000 characters will be truncated.

If you like the magazine, get the rest of the year for just $19.95 (6 issues in all).

If not, simply write cancel on the bill and return it. You will owe nothing.
