
Happy birthday, Norway!

May 17th, is Norway's National Day. It is celebrated all across the nation, from the largest community to the smallest, with parades, bands, flags, national costumes, festival services and festivities with everyone taking part, marking the day in 1814, when Norway adopted its new Constitution.

This year the weather forecast looks quite promising for the south eastern part of the country, with sunshine most of the day and temperatures up to 20 degrees Celcius. The western part will experience a mix of rain and shine, while the further north we go, the more rain is predicted, and less chance for sunshine.

In the nation's capital, Oslo, the children's parade is the main attraction, with all the city schools represented, 111 in all, each headed by the school's banner and brass band. This unique parade has become a world attraction, and each year thousands of visitors from all over the world come to watch. A few have been fortunate to obtain special seats set up in front of the Royal Palace, mainly reserved for diplomats and special guests.

The long parade march up Oslo's main street, Karl Johans gate, to the Royal Palace, where they are received by the Royal Family standing on the front balcony, waving to the crowd. This year is the 102nd time that the Norwegian Royal Family will greet the people from the balcony on the 17th of May.

The school children of the municipality of Asker just outside Oslo however, are particularly favoured on May 17th. Early in the morning, Crown Prince Haakon and Crown Princess Mette-Marit greet the youngsters as they parade past the Royal Family's country home at Skaugum. The couple receive flowers from two of the children. This has been a tradition for many years.

After several years of celebrating the Constitution Day attending a festive performance at the National Theatre in Oslo, the King and the Queen have the last few years changed this tradition by instead visiting other parts of the capital and nearby communities, and this year they will be present at Eidsvoll.

In most of these places there will also be parades, festival services, speeches and activities for the children, as well as coffee and the beloved Norwegian waffles.

Storm-lash'd o'er the sea it towers with the thousand homes.

Love it dearly, ever thinking....of our fathers' strife,

And the land of Saga sinking, dreams upon our life,

And the land of Saga sinking, sinking dreams upon our life.

Norsemen, in whatever station, thank your mighty God;

He has kindly saved our nation from oppression's rod.

That for which our sires contended and our mothers wailed,

Silently the Lord defended, so our rights, our rights prevailed.
