
A CURSORY look into why the interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Chief Bisi Akande, addressed his world press conference recently gave an impression that he was a truly concerned elder who wanted to speak to the issue of the insurgency that has escalated in the last few weeks. At a point, he said that it was time for all to rally to save the country, as if some have stood idly by while the insurgency raged.

A deeper reading of his text at the press conference showed a sinister motive beneath his attempt at statesmanship. It was a gloater’s rendition by a man who was in the serves-them-right mode, wanting to gain cheap political capital out of a situation brought upon the nation by elements within his own party which he failed to acknowledge.

He declined to tell us it was the failure of leadership at the state government level occasioned by the desperation of a former governor of one of the APC states that ballooned this security situation out of hand. That governor, who now wants to occupy one of the highest offices in the APC, is still being fingered by many in the state for the destabilisation there.

It would be recalled that a former chieftain of one of the parties that coalesced into the APC, told Nigerians how he warned the former governor of the implication of keeping youths in his state unemployed and using them to score political gains. Except Akande does not want to remember, Nigerians still remember what transpired then. Rather than gloat over what we have on our hands, he should give us fresh ideas outside what government is doing as contained in his 10-point suggestions.

The government has already told us about these; so, we do not need a coloured rehash of them from those who do not wish Nigeria well.

If the North-East is what APC can show as an example, it can well be imagined what the party will do with Nigeria if they ever mount the saddle in the country. Akande says that since 2009, when President Goodluck Jonathan was actually not in office, Boko Haram launched its terror campaign, killing and maiming thousands of citizens, while the economic and social activities in a whole section of the country, run by APC governors, have been paralysed.

Except Akande has not been in the country in recent times, or is again selectively forgetful, he would have observed that one of the chieftains of his party, who he wants the world to believe does not have a hand in the emboldening of the terrorists, has changed gear and now appears worried that the situation requires every patriot to be involved in resolving, rather than exacerbating. General Mohammadu Buhari knows more than his co-travellers that he needs a functional Nigeria if he must achieve his life ambition of running her. Those who have been meeting with Buhari in the open, and undermining him secretly, would not be able to understand him since they have been local champions, and have not handled matters at the federal level.

Akande added that statements made by key leaders of his party, including Buhari, were distorted and taken out of context to justify PDP’s claim that the APC is the sponsor of terrorist attacks, adding that opponents of APC say a party that has 35 interim officials, 18 of them Muslims and 17 of them Christians, is an Islamic party that is in cahoots with Boko Haram. He stated that no amount of disclaimer by the APC impressed its accusers.

Instead of Akande regaling us with needless history, strategies, and positions, he should be the elder statesman his followers alone claim he is and tell us something new and refreshing. His world press conference was nothing but a sham and a shame for an elder like him.

KAYODE OJO, a public affairs analyst, wrote from Lagos.
