
A veteran Umno member has called for the mother of DAP candidate for the  Teluk Intan by-election Dyana Sofya to leave the party or be sacked for  openly campaigning for a rival party.

Dyana's mother Yammny Samat has said that she wanted to back her daughter despite her long-term membership in Umno.

Umno veteran Mustapha Yaakob told Berita Harian that Umno cannot ignore Yammy's insult and violation of the party's constitution.

"If  Yammy is still an Umno member, her action to back anyone other than a  BN candidate clashes with party ethics - it's either she quits or the  party must sack her," he was quoted as saying.

"No point keeping members like her when she is clearly insulting and undermining the party's credibility," he added.

Mustapha urged Umno secretary-general Tengku Adnan Tengku Mansor to take immediate action.

He added that it was not a question of mother and daughter sentiments but safeguarding party interests first.

Dyana is facing off against Gerakan president Mah Siew Keong in the May 31 by-election for the parliament seat.

Meanwhile, Utusan Malaysia reported Umno MP Noh Omar calling PKR a party of extremists.

Noh said he was not surprised with recent reports that gangsterism  behaviour had forced a re-vote at 27 PKR branches in the party  elections.

He said this was because the 16-year old party was forged in the "negative culture" of reformation and rebellion.

Komentar yang diutarakan melalui laman sosial ini adalah milik peribadi dan tanggungjawab pemilik akaun laman sosial ini. Malaysia Chronicle tidak bertanggungjawab diatas segala komentar yang disiarkan dibawah. Para komentar dinasihatkan bertanggungjawab dalam menulis dan elakkan komentar berbaur perkauman, seksis, serangan peribadi, lucah ataupun menghina.

Komentar yang berbentuk "drama bersiri", yakni salin & tampal artikel pihak ketiga secara bersiri ataupun komentar yang keluar tajuk juga ditegah dan akan dianggap sebagai penyalahgunaan kemudahan komentar ini.

Harap maklum bahawa anda perlu log-masuk melalui Facebook, Yahoo, MSN atau akaun sosial media yang disediakan untuk meninggalkan komentar. Juga maklum bahawa terpulang kepada jalur-lebar di kawasan-kawasan tertentu, komentar anda mungkin tidak akan disiarkan dengan serta-merta.
