
In this photo combination, Lynne Holman carries salvaged items away from her boyfriend's tornado-ravaged home on May 23, 2013, in Moore, Okla., top, and Holman and boyfriend Paul Kemp, look over the tornado-scarred landscape outside their new home on May, 7.

MOORE, Okla. (AP) — When the storm came, it wasn’t a surprise. Tornadoes have a habit of ripping through town, and the forecasters had been warning for days that another was going to descend from dark clouds sure to gather in the late afternoon.

The only question was: What horror would this tornado wreak this time? A year later, the answers still scar the Oklahoma City bedroom community of Moore.

In all, 24 people died in the May 20, 2013, storm, among them seven children killed inside a school that didn’t have a shelter. Hundreds were injured. Thousands of homes and other buildings were removed from the map.

The recovery from the tornado, twisting with 210 mph winds as it took 39 minutes to carve its 17-mile-long path of destruction, remains halting.

A year later, The Associated Press spent a day in Moore, returning to some of the people and places photographed in the days after the storm hit. Here are some of the stories about their journey to recover from the monster that took their homes and stole so many lives.

Abby Cotten was going to knock off early, but her boss in hospital admissions knew better. When he saw what was in the forecast, and watched the tornado develop on television and plow through Moore, he wouldn’t let her leave. Not until it was safe did he drive the 28-year-old home, to the house where she grew up and still shared with her parents.

Cotten’s parents had owned the home for 37 years. They learned it was gone while on vacation, in an email Cotten sent from her phone to their hotel in Mexico. They never really came home — Cotten’s mom didn’t want to stay in the neighborhood — and her parents decided to rebuild a few miles away. But Cotten herself is staying put. Habitat for Humanity will build a new home for her on the empty lot later this summer.

Linda Harville had seen her share of tornadoes. She’d lived in Moore for 32 years, and Moore is the kind of place where a storm’s severity is measured not by wind speed but in lives lost.

She lives in Edmond now, 30 minutes to the north. It’s still located in tornado alley, but at least it isn’t Moore.

Lynne Holman moved to Moore from Rhode Island a month before the storm hit. She’d seen blizzards and nor’easters on the East Coast, and thought the TV forecasters in New England made too much of them. So she didn’t think much of all the warnings in Moore.

She raced to wedge herself between the washer and dryer before crawling down the hallway and into the bathroom as the tornado arrived.

The house had collapsed around her and boyfriend Paul Kemp and their cat, Cupcake. The first voice they heard came from the street, yelling “call out, call out!” Whoever it was — she still doesn’t know — pulled them from the rubble.

The couple has since rebuilt and improved on their old house, but said they’re not looking forward to their new backyard view, which will now include the monument being built to honor the people who died in the storm.

Posted in Nation on Sunday, May 18, 2014 11:01 pm.

Submit your news!

Submit your news!

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Address: 320 E. Methvin St.
