
NAY PYI TAW -- Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister Chang Wanquan met with Commander-in-Chief of Myanmar's Defense Services Senior-General Min Aung Hlaing here Monday and the two military leaders exchanged views on developing the two countries' and the two armed forces' relations as well as maintenance of stability at the border areas.

China and Myanmar have for years continued to expand their exchange and cooperation in a number of sectors, and have gained mutual understanding and support on issues concerning each other's major interests, Chang said.

The Chinese side would like to join Myanmar in actively pushing forward the two countries' comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership, he added.

The two countries' armed forces should enhance communications, deepen cooperation, strengthen strategic mutual trust and jointly safeguard the friendship between the two countries and contribute to regional peace and stability, Chang said.

For his part, Min Aung Hlaing said Myanmar always views China as a trustworthy friendly neighbor.

No matter how the international and regional situation as well as the two countries' domestic situations change, the Myanmar side would always be committed to strengthening the practical exchanges and cooperation between the two armed forces to ensure border stability and safeguard the two countries' common interests, he said.

Chang arrived in Nay Pyi Taw Sunday on an official goodwill visit to Myanmar. He will also attend the China-ASEAN Defense Ministers' Meeting in the capital city.

On Monday morning, Chang had talks with Myanmar Defense Minister Lieutenant General Wai Lwin.

. All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.
