
The Yucatan State Government will invest 98 million pesos in the project “Izamal, ciudad Luz” (Izamal, City Light), which involves the installation of a photovoltaic plant in an area of ​​two hectares.

This is the first sustainable Magic Town in México, which will generate electricity for public buildings, streets lighting and will even supply electricity to five “comisarías” within the Municipality of Izamal.

In addition, the tourism project “Senderos de luz” (Paths of light), will be included, which is a night tour to promote overnight visitors in the city and detonate the tourism locally.

At a press conference, Federal Deputy William Sosa Altamira, the Mayor of Izamal, Fermín Sosa Lugo and Secretary of Tourism Promotion, Saúl Ancona Salazar, reported that this project will consolidate Izamal as the first Municipality in Latin America to generate their own electricity.

The company in charge of this project is Citelum, which is responsible for the entire process, from installation of 10 thousand square meters of solar panels in an area of ​​two hectares, to replacing 3,000 existing units with new LED fixtures.

The plant will generate the power currently consumed in Izamal, but as soon as it starts working, the town would stop paying the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) for energy consumption.

They added that the agreement of 98 million pesos will be paid in 15 years at a rate of 720,000 pesos per month, which is the equivalent of the surcharge that is currently paid for electricity consumption.

The lifetime of the photovoltaic plant is 30 years, so the Municipal Government would have both economic and energy savings for 15 years. Once completed the first 15 years, the Municipality would have to sign another agreement for equipment maintenance.

Deputy  Sosa Altamira noted that the project was already submitted to Congress and once it is authorized, the money would be assigned for the State Government of Yucatan, then it will be transferred to the Municipal government of Izamal, to fulfill the commitment.

Regarding “Senderos de Luz” tourism project, focused on propitiating that visitors spend the night in town; the tour consists in a route of 8 strategic points across Izamal, where “video mappings” of local landmarks will be projected, including the former Convent of San Antonio de Padua.

Video mapping is a projection technology used to turn objects, often irregularly shaped, into a display surface for video projection. These objects may be complex industrial landscapes, such as buildings. By using specialized software, a two- or three-dimensional object is spatially mapped on the virtual program which mimics the real environment it is to be projected on.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
