
Cossack militia attacked the Pussy Riot punk group with horsewhips Wednesday as the group tried to perform under a sign advertising the Olympics. Wearing their signature ski masks, 6 group members started to sing as security officials moved in.

Yes, that would be an understatement.

The Windy City also happens to be the adopted hometown of President Barack Obama, who has shown shades of Pussy Riot rebellion in his own contentious relationship with Russia's leader.

The feminist group, scheduled to appear alongside Jane's Addiction, Weezer and the Wu-Tang Clan at Chicago's Riot Fest in mid-September, became an overnight cause celebre in 2012 after two of its leaders -- Nadya Tolokonnikova and Masha Alekhina -- were sentenced to prison on charges of "hooliganism" for staging an anti-Putin protest in a Russian church.

Tolokonnikova and Alekhina will take part in a panel discussion at the music festival on the city's West Side.

Condemning 2012's guilty verdict, an Obama spokesperson said the U.S. was "disappointed" and seriously concerned "about the way that these young women have been treated by the Russian judicial system."

Two years later, diplomacy between the U.S. and Russia is reaching Cold-War levels of iciness. Through the threat of economic sanctions , the Obama Administration has sought to transform the country into a " pariah state " amid a stand-off over eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. Putin has yet to yank thousands of troops off the border of the former Soviet state, and faces allegations that he intends to interrupt Ukraine's pivotal presidential election , slated for May 25.

According to Vox Media's Max Fisher , Obama's strategy sees Putin "hanging himself by his own rope."

"The lesson that Putin is learning is that Russia depends on the global economy, whether it likes it or not, and the global economy doesn't like it when you go invading other countries and tempting the richest nations in the world to maybe consider sanctioning you," Fisher writes. "This is actually a significant change for Russia, which at the height of its Soviet power was not integrated into the global economy and so didn't have to worry about things like investor sentiment."

While Putin stands accused of irrational attempts to restore Russia's greatness as a " 19th-century empire ," Pussy Riot's rabblerousers are being hailed as heroes risking their lives to take on a crusty Old World regime.

Stepping foot on Chicago soil -- where Obama launched his career as a charismatic leader, and future Putin foe -- is another way of sticking it to the Kremlin.
