
Muscat: Stargazers in Oman may be treated with a rare meteor showers on May 23 night as Earth passes through the tail of a comet.

Speaking to Times of Oman, Mohammed Yahya Al Hijri, resident-foreign affairs, Oman Astronomical Society, said residents can see as many as 1,000 shooting stars per hour between 10pm and 5am.

"The minimum you can witness is 60 to 100 shooting stars per hour as the earth passes through debris from Comet 209P/LINEAR," he said.

As our planet moves across the rock chunks, they burn up in the atmosphere with bright light, giving astronomers a rare celestial phenomenon for which they wait for so long .

The reason we could see so many meteors is because all of the debris will be in the Earth's path and the Camelopardalids showers result from the moving debris of a periodic comet, 209P/LINEAR. "This is rare phenomena and residents can enjoy it through their naked eyes. There is no need of telescope or any other device to see them," he said.

He also said that they were trying to organise a show on May 23 evening until sunrise between Al Khoud and Mabelah. "Based on forecasts, it is believed that this event could be an astronomical experience of a lifetime," he added.

Oman Astronomical Society, he said, will also provide visitors an opportunity to look through the club telescopes at other celestial objects also. "But we will only be able to confirm by Tuesday the exact venue," he said.

"Normally, star gazing in Oman is done at Al Amerat but due to some unavoidable circumstances we are searching for an alternative place," he said.

Comet 209P/LINEAR was discovered in February 2004 by the Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research project, a cooperative effort of Nasa, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, and the US Air Force. It is a relatively dim comet that dips inside the Earth orbit once every five years as it loops around the sun.

Few years back, meteor experts Esko Lyytinen of Finland and Peter Jenniskens at Nasa Ames Research Centre announced that Earth was due for an encounter with debris from Comet 209P/LINEAR.

Streams of dust ejected by the comet mainly back in the 18th century would cross Earth's orbit on May 23, 2014. The result, they said, could be a significant meteor outburst.

Following our encounter with its tail, the comet will be as close as 5 million miles (8.3 million kilometres) to Earth before it makes its way out towards Jupiter again in its orbit.

Is it happening now. Im interested to watch this. Any clue of location? We tried, but not seen.

Organising a show? Nature is putting up a show, better not spoil it with ambient light and some commercial venture.
