
Cara Cox, 12, has been returned to her mother, Jodie Borchert, after an anonymous tip-off led investigators to the mountains of Mexico where her father, Aaron Cox, 55, was allegedly hiding out.

Have You Seen Cara Cox? via Facebook Cara, seen as a younger girl, was missing for years before being flown back to Miami recently to reunite with her mother.

A missing Florida girl abducted by her dad who took her to Mexico five years ago has finally been reunited with her mom.

Cara Cox, who is just 12 years old, is now back with her mother, Jodie Borchert, after an anonymous tip-off led investigators to the remote mountains where she was being held.

Her father Aaron Cox, 55 — who allegedly used a court-ordered visit in 2009 to steal the youngster away to the Hidalgo area — was detained in a raid of his property Friday outside of Mexico City.

The pair had reportedly been living in the region under assumed names.

Cara was then flown to Miami, where she was reconciled with her emotional mother.

The Daytona Beach News-Journal reports that Borchert's little girl was just 8 years old when she and her father disappeared into thin air from his Deltona, Fla., home in August 2009.

Cara Cox was 8 when she was allegedly abducted from Deltona, Fla., during a weekend visit by her dad.

Borchert had legal custody of her daughter, and the girl's dad had weekend visitation rights. When he went missing, a warrant was issued for Cox for interference with child custody, the News-Journal reports.

For five years, cops searched high and low for the missing duo — even releasing computer-aged photos of what the youngster would look like every two years.

Borchert, who said she never gave up hope of finding her child, posted a heartbreaking plea for her to get in touch on Mother's Day.

"Hi Cara baby, this is mommy wishing you had been here on this my fifth Mother's Day without you, I miss you more than words can say!" she wrote on Facebook.

"Please keep trying to reach us, don't ever give up we are all still here and looking for you.......always," she added.

Aaron Cox, 55, has been arrested on a warrant for interfering with child custody but could face other charges.

Volusia County Sheriff's Office, the U.S. Marshals Service, the State Attorney's Office and the Florida/Caribbean Regional Fugitive Task Force worked together to raid the premises.

Cox was arrested without incident, authorities said.

"It is such a huge relief to bring this case to a successful conclusion," Brandon Haught, spokesman for the Volusia County Sheriff's Office, told the News-Journal.

"Reports are the girl is extremely happy to be reunited with her family," he added.

Cox was awaiting extradition to Miami. He will be moved to Volusia County, where the abduction took place and the initial warrant was issued.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
