
THE current performance of Muscat Securities Market (MSM) does not reflect its solid basis and resources. The less than expected performance by MSM may be attributed to a number of technical, financial and sentimental factors. This situation requires us to conduct a study and discuss its outcomes with small and big investors as well as all stakeholders to identify the sound measures that can be taken to rectify this situation and enhance the market ability to attract investors.

1 The effect of the dividend and the holding of many general assemblies in April.

2 Traders tend to speculate on the small capital companies and remain away from big companies, which constitute the bulk of the MSM 30 indicator.

3 Lack of local incentives by ministries and public organizations with regard to floating the planned major tenders, which were expected by investors.

4 Omani’s government sale of part of its share capital in Omantel and listing the shares in the market. This distracted the attention of most investors even for a short period of time.

5 Part of the yields were not invested at the local market, as expected but rather went to the neighboring stock markets.

6 Insufficient disclosures about the outcomes of the 1st quarter by many boards and executive managements.

7 Active and significant activity in the neighboring regional markets, which attracted the attention and interest of investors.

We all know that Omantel share, which is part of the indicator, has declined before subscription as many small investors tend to sell their shares and wait to subscribe at the same share and company to reap the benefits from the difference in price (which was about 10 per cent from the last share price at the last day before the subscription). This means that Omantel’s share has a negative impact on MSM indicators either before the listing or after it due the low share price compared to the last price before subscription. The share was sold to Omanis with 10 per cent discount. This has a negative impact on MSM’s indicator, which Omantel constitute 10 per cent of its weight. Similarly, many investors, especially individuals, tend to sell their shares to other companies to cover their positions.

Many analysts and observers question the prospective role played by regulators to ensure rectifying the downward movement of the market, contrary to the situation at regional markets. The solution lies not only with regulators but rather with companies’ managements and boards which should make timely disclosures without any delay.

The weakness of the market should not be always interpreted as poor performance of the shares due to poor financial or operational performance of the listed companies. This poor performance may be attributed to untimely disclosures, the type of the disclosures made, inability to interpret such disclosures and lack of clarity.

The regulatory bodies should draft more rules and regulations that make it mandatory for the companies to make timely disclosure of material information related to any negotiations or agreements, even in principles, made other companies and parts especially if such information would affect the share price.

Many analysts believe that there is no real reading for the market and that speculations are among the main reasons behind the bad performance of the market.  I believe that that on the contrary the figures reflect the information and data that have been disclosed till now. The problem is that the expectations by some investors have been greater than the figures, outcomes and profits of these companies. This situation created a gap between expectations and reality.

The question now is what are the solutions that should be adopted to ensure that MSM can keep pace with the hikes seen by the regional markets? I believe that in such situation it is very important to attract more listings especially by major companies and to diversify the investment and financial tools available at the local market. We should go an extra mile to attract more Arab and foreign investments and liquidity to the market to increase the size, value, capitalization and activity of the market. We should also update the laws and regulations to ensure that they are in line with international rules and regulations. We should continue endeavors to ensure that MSM is, at least, one of the emerging markets to benefit from the huge capitals pumped in these markets each year.

Market observers during the past period will find that the attention of investors has centered around certain shares and companies on the expense of either leading or not leading companies or those who disclosed their statements recently including investment and holding companies.

I believe that we are in bad need for more disclosures about companies’ plans and information. This helped the market and investors in enhancing their activities following the disclosures made on the IPOs or financial statements or the tenders floated by the government.

We expect the market to be active in this summer in terms of the performance of the companies due to the enlisting or fresh IPOs. In addition to the new subscriptions such as al Sawadi Power and al Batinah Power there are other companies in the pipeline such as al Maha Ceramics and Truck Oman (as per press statements). The trading is expected to be active during June and July especially many companies will unveil their performance at the second quarter and the shares of the new IPOs will be listed at the market.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
