
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

"The more you think about it, the more the goddamn Googleyness of the thing stands out: the ambition, the scale, and the type of solution they've come up with to this very hard problem," she writes . "What was a nearly intractable 'machine vision' problem ... has become a much, much easier machine vision problem thanks to a massive, unprecedented, unthinkable amount of data collection."

Catherine Rampell of The Washington Post gently skewers Silicon Valley's opportunistic appropriation of the word "sharing" through businesses dubbed "car-sharing," "home-sharing," "ride-sharing" and the like.

Charles Krauthammer discusses the power of the hashtag and the meaning of tweeting about subjects such as the kidnapped girls of Nigeria.

The New Yorker continues its coverage of the ouster of New York Times editor Jill Abramson with a short piece by Ben McGrath about the firing and aftermath.

Over the weekend, the board urged Portland Public Schools not to break promises to voters about the roof-and-seismic work that is a central part of the $482 million construction bond measure passed in 2012. The board also compared the bond measures on the ballot this month in the Beaverton and Corbett school districts: One should pass, the board said, while the other needs improvement.

* The full list of endorsements by The Oregonian editorial board for key races and measures in the May 20 election.

*  A column by guest contributor David Sarasohn expressing relief that Oregon may be spared a bruising battle over gay rights on the 2014 ballot.

*  A column by freelance contributor Elizabeth Hovde on Clark County's dirty solution to a clean-water problem.

*  Several good guest opinion essays, including one by Mark McKechnie opposing the "adultification" of underage lawbreakers in Oregon. Another essay by Kathy Walsh of Bend describes a disturbing box she received from the Oregon State Hospital.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
