
Automatic Renewal Program: Your subscription will continue without interruption for as long as you wish, unless          you instruct us otherwise. Your subscription will automatically renew at the end of the term unless you authorize          cancellation. Each year, you'll receive a notice and you authorize that your credit/debit card will be charged the          annual subscription rate(s). You may cancel at any time during your subscription and receive a full refund on all          unsent issues. If your credit/debit card or other billing method can not be charged, we will bill you directly instead.

Google's YouTube is in talks to acquire video game streaming company Twitch, in a deal worth more than $1 billion, according to Variety .

Citing unnamed sources, the industry news site said the all-cash offer, if completed, would mark the most significant acquisition in YouTube history.

While Variety claims an official announcement is imminent, the Wall Street Journal said in a follow-up report that "talks are at an early stage," and the $1 billion asking price is an unconfirmed estimate.

Google and Twitch both declined to comment on the rumors.

Newcomer Twitch has risen to the top of the gaming world since its June 2011 launch, now the most popular Web service for watching and broadcasting video game-play, as streamed via Xbox and PlayStation consoles. A recent report from Sandvine found that Twitch.tv generates more traffic in the U.S. than HBO GO. Meanwhile, shortly after the launch of Titanfall, Microsoft said that players had live-streamed 10 million minutes of their epic battles, making Titanfall the most streamed game from the Xbox One.

The San Francisco-based startup claims more than 45 million monthly users, plus more than 1 million members uploading videos each month, Variety reported. It also boasts distribution deals with CBS Interactive's GameSpot, Joystiq, and Destructoid.

And while Twitch poses little threat to YouTube's status as the No. 1 Internet video platform , it does provide a more extensive live-streaming service than its competitors. As the Journal pointed out, YouTube Live's games, music, sports, and news service lags far behind Twitch, which accounted for almost 44 percent of U.S. live-streaming traffic by volume in early April.

If true, this acquisition could be a real sticking point for the U.S. Justice Department, which would take a "hard look," Variety said, at whether anti-competitiveness issues may be raised in the online video market.

In March, Twitch launched its mobile SDK, making the live broadcasting, capturing, and archiving of mobile games available to iOS and Android developers. The company later announced that Gameloft's Asphalt 8: Airborne for iOS would be the first title to take advantage of its new mobile streaming platform.

These acquisition rumors come three months after former Google senior vice president of ads and commerce Susan Wojcicki was named CEO of YouTube , which the search giant acquired in the fall of 2006 for $1.65 billion.

Also watch PCMag Live in the video below, which discusses the possible acquisition of Twitch by YouTube.

Editor's Note: This story was updated at 12:45 p.m. Eastern with comment from Twitch.

THANKS FOR SIGNING UP!

ONLY $1.67 an issue!

ONLY $1.25 an issue!

Lock in Your Savings!

THANKS FOR SIGNING UP!

THANKS FOR SIGNING UP!
