
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BAY CITY, MI — Lisa Brown, Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor, made an appearance in Bay City on Sunday, May 18, to attend the 58th annual Freedom Fund Banquet hosted by the NAACP Bay City Branch.

Before she took a seat at the banquet, she spoke with The Bay City Times about Bay County, her stance on gay marriage and educational issues in Michigan.

A: Bay County has always had a very special place in my heart. When I was a kid, my family came here on vacation, we stayed at the Bay Valley Inn, and my brother and I thought that the indoor/outdoor pool was the coolest thing ever. We still talk about it. That following year in elementary school, we were studying Michigan, and we all had to do a report on a county, and I chose Bay County.

A: I'm making sure that regardless of where a child lives, they have access to a high-quality local education. It rings true in Bay County, it rings true in Wayne County and in Houghton. It's the same issues across the state: making sure we have an economy that works for everyone. People at the top have been doing well, but everybody else in this state has not; trickle-down economics does not work, and we need to support the middle class and build it out.

A: (As Oakland County Clerk) I inherited being a party to the lawsuit from my predecessor, because the county clerk is who you get your marriage license from. And yes, when I took office I took a different approach to the lawsuit than my predecessor.

I've been forced to discriminate in my office, and so I do agree with the plaintiffs, as Judge Friedman did. March 22, my office issued 142 marriage licenses to same sex couples — for those couples to be legally married, but we won't extend state benefits to those couples. It's really a shame. And it's not just couples in Oakland County, there's three other counties that couples were married in as well.

A: Yesterday was the 60th anniversary of the Brown vs. Board of education decision, and you would think that our children would be in a better place than they were across the state. There's still discrimination going on, there's socioeconomic segregation, and the way that the budget is done by Governor Snyder, he picks winners and losers among our children. There's a lot of work to be done to make sure every child has access to a high quality education.

A: It's never an appropriate way to act. Just because you don't agree with anybody, you don't silence them. That's not democracy. It wasn't just me who was silenced, it was my constituents, it was the people who I was working for. I've always worked in a bipartisan manner, so does Mark (Schauer, Democratic candidate for governor). We have a history in the legislature and that's how we'll continue to work across the aisle and listening, letting people speak. That's what democracy is about.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
