
Babafemi responded to al Qaeda calls for supporters to help develop methods (electronic or otherwise) to promote Islamic terrorists and help solve difficult problems, like how to deal with the American UAVs that constantly patrol terrorist sanctuaries in Pakistan (Waziristan), Afghanistan (the Pakistani border area) and southern Yemen. These aircraft constantly find and kill Islamic terrorist leaders with missiles, including several of those who, like Babafemi, worked on Internet based promotion and propaganda. This effort produced many English language efforts and a lot of the work was based in Yemen.

In early 2013 the Afghan Taliban put out an appeal for help via the first issue of “Azan”, an online magazine similar to the earlier (2010) Inspire magazine based in Yemen. Created by American born (and Yemen based) Islamic terrorist Anwar al Awlaqi, the ten issues of Inspire gave wannabe Islamic terrorists guidance on what the main targets should be (according to senior al Qaeda leadership) and practical advice on how to carry out attacks. One issue advised going after prominent people, like retired politicians or those deemed to have insulted Islam, and kill them. Several articles provided more practical advice on various terrorist techniques. Anwar al Awlaqi was killed by a UAV launched missile in 2011, as have several other terrorists associated with Inspire. This is why Inspire was published irregularly. Azan was soon under similar pressure and has had only five issues so far. Inspire magazine has published twelve issues since 2010, including one in early 2014.

Azan’s first issue was devoted almost entirely to the UAV problem. The terrible suffering of the Holy Warriors because of the relentless UAVs was described in great detail. The implication was that many clever ideas to counter the UAVs have failed and new and more effective ideas are desperately needed. The missile armed UAVs were a major threat to Islamic terrorist leaders in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
