
ERBIL, Kurdistan Region – Iraq’s political groups appear headed for a showdown over whether Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki should stay for a third term, following the April 30 polls that his Shiite-led State of Law bloc says it swept.

In order to stay in his post, Maliki needs the support of the country’s powerful Sunnis and Kurds, as well as fellow Shiites that his party has alienated with its policies. But none appears ready to offer such support.

The Sunni al-Watania bloc said on Sunday it would not allow Maliki to stay in for a third term, the powerful Shiite Sadrist bloc said it was also opposed and the autonomous Kurds, who tried to engineer an unsuccessful “no confidence” bid against Maliki during his second term, have no love lost for the premier.

Iyad Allawi, head of the al-Watania bloc, said that a large part of the problems in Iraq could be resolved by replacing Maliki. Allawi said that Maliki staying in power was a “red line” for his bloc, which is not ready to allow it.

 "We don't mind even if Maliki would win 10 million votes; we should place democracy in the forefront, and we need a roadmap to get Iraq to stability," he told Rudaw TV.

During a visit to Erbil, Allawi met with Kurdistan Region President Massoud Barzani. According to a statement by the Kurdistan Presidency, the two leaders “emphasized that the elections and results should rectify the political process and resolve the issues."

"We agreed with Kurdistan Region President Massoud Barzani that re-nomination of Nouri Maliki is a red line," Allawi said.

Amir Kanani, a leader of the Shiite Sadr trend, said his bloc was busy within the National Alliance, discussing two points: First, nomination of a National Alliance candidate for the premiership, and second the peaceful transfer of power from Maliki.

Kanani said that his group is in touch with the Supreme Islamic Council of Iraq (ISCI) to organize a joint delegation to the Kurdistan Region.

Meanwhile, Allawi said he is ready to back President Barzani to replace Jalal Talabani as the president of Iraq,  but that his bloc opposes the division of positions according to ethnic or religious quotas.

“The Iraqi constitution has not indicated that the post should be only for Kurds, but we don't mind even that post, or even other posts in the hands of the Kurds. In particular if someone like Barzani would become Iraqi president, that would be an honor for us," Allawi said.

But he added that: "If someone would say that this post is related to Kurds and that one is for Sunnis or Arabs, I confront it and reject it."

On the issue of the Kurdistan’s Region’s independent oil exports, Allawi said that the Kurds can handle the exports, but the revenues must be returned to the central government.

“We support oil exports, provided the revenue returns to the central government, and this is a constitutional matter," Allawi said.

Despite the rejections by the Kurds, Sunnis and some Shiite parties, State of Law insists on offering Maliki as the sole candidate for prime minister. It has reportedly written to all political groups, including the Kurds, calling for support for Maliki’s bid for another term in office.

Meanwhile, Kanani referred to the heavy Iranian hand in Iraqi politics, and Tehran’s support for Maliki.

“There is a foreign role in settling that post, but we reject such interference and the premiership issue has to be decided inside the country," said Kanani. "Furthermore, we insist that the three presidencies (speaker of parliament, Iraqi presidency and premiership) should not exceed more than two terms," he added.

Allawi / Maliki all the same they reject our homeland and right of selling oil that is under our ground! No thanks we rather go on with out you arabs that still live in stone age! If barzani makes same mistake and dont declare independece! Then i can tell you this i will stop all support for us kurds im sick of being called a iraqi kurd, or trying to explain where kurdistan is! Declare independece now or your lost my support and im sure alot of people feel the same way!

You need to have a degree to become president of Iraq, it's not like Kurdistan.  Unless President Barzani is enrolled in classes online, that would eliminate him from being a candidate.

Kurdistan will have full independence from Iraq . sooner or later. The sooner  may be the better for both kurds and arabs. as the new nation of kurdistan will separate Iraq from his worst ememy namely Turkey.

Maliki needs to go. If you think this may destablize the country, think again, the opposite will. To get anything done in Iraq it has always been that you needed to please one man. Call him whatever you wish to call him, supreme leader, dictator or whatever. True since the days of Nuri Saeed, Qassem, Arif (briefly), the nightmare that was Saddam, and now Maliki. This is the tragedy of Iraq and it is no way to build this country. The US, at considerable expense and sacrifices by all, changed this Iraq reality in 2003, now the US needs to step in again and change it one more time in 2014, but peacefully. If this guy controls the military and the Iraqi supreme court through bibery and intimdation, it is a one man rule. The CIA put Maliki in the prime minister`s chair, this is well known (K. Pollack), and now that he has been tested do you wish to keep him there. Simple: Iraq cannot afford to have a one man rule for another four years! The prime minister should not remain in office for more than two terms and set a precedent. Persuade him to step aside. He needs about 80 parliamentary votes to form a coalition government. Do not give him the votes. Iraqis may do this on their own without help from the US.

Be Part of Your Rudaw!

Share your stories, photos and videos with Rudaw, and quite possibly the world.

In the future, sell your oil to the far east market. I am very sure, korean, japanese, chinese are willing to buy without hesitation.

This is a very good news that brings Kurdistan much closer to independence and separation from that mad-house called Iraq!

They are many extreme muslims within kurds to, not long ago. YPG cought some kurds from Southern Kurdistan and north.
