
WILKES-BARRE TWP. — There was plenty of Lions’ pride purring around the arena Sunday as about 500 graduates tossed their tassels during the King’s College commencement ceremony.

More than 4,000 gathered in the Mohegan Sun Arena at Casey Plaza to cheer on the graduates at the college’s 65th annual graduation.

Keynote speaker and alumnus Patrick J. O’Connor said it was his education at the Wilkes-Barre campus that concluded in 1964 that propelled him into an uber-successful career as a trial lawyer.

Some of his best friends in law school came from Ivy League colleges, but he never felt his small-town college education shortchanged his growing mind.

O’Connor was raised one of 10 children and the son of a widow, Helen, who worked hard to send all of her children to college. Six of her seven boys went to King’s, he said. The girls went to Misericordia.

O’Connor, who lives in Philadelphia, attended Villanova University School of Law to complete his graduate work and went on to be co-founder of law firm Cozen & O’Connor, which employs nearly 600 lawyers and has offices in 22 cities in the United States and Canada, including one in Wilkes-Barre.

King’s was founded in 1946 by the Congregation of Holy Cross as a men’s college geared toward helping the sons of poor coal mining families and men returning from military service after World War II.

When O’Connor was a student in 1960, tuition cost a reasonable $350 each semester, he said.

Diocese of Scranton Bishop Joseph Bambera reminded the students their alma mater is uniquely connected to the Catholic community in Northeastern Pennsylvania and remains rooted in the beliefs of its first president, the Rev. James Connerton.

“King’s teaches students not only how to make a living, but how to live,” Bambera said quoting Connerton.

In typical graduation fashion, 2014 class president Fizza Saeed thanked the teachers, the parents, the staff, those who helped them through their learning, and then she walked her classmates through the highs and lows of college life.

“Graduates of 2014, you have been prepped for this day from the moment you stepped onto campus,” Saeed said.

As a piece of parting advice, O’Connor encouraged his audience always to be considerate of others and to maintain a light heart.

“There is one attribute that will solve many difficulties, and that is a humor,” O’Connor said.
