
A 2-day Nautical Licence Course is being held in Gozo by the Malta Sailing Academy, as required by Transport Malta for people driving a craft with a combined hp of 30 or more in Maltese Territorial Waters.

The next course, which will be delivered in English, is being held this coming Friday and Saturday, the 23rd and 24th of May.

The Nautical Licence is not only a legal necessity, but it is precious to give boat users the peace of mind needed when manoeuvring a boat, for not only your own safety and those cruising with you, but out of duty and respect for other boat owners out at sea.

The theory sessions go through what is required to manoeuvre a boat around local bays and on the open sea, how to recognise the buoyage system, navigation lights, rules of the road, proper usage of safety equipment, prevent and control a fire, basic navigation, engine care and maintenance among other things.

The practical sessions include basic boat handling, coming alongside and man overboard drills.

On Fridays the course takes place from 16.00hrs to 19:00hrs and on Saturdays from 08:00hrs to 18:00hrs. Price of course is €125 and examination fee is €35.

The course, which consists of both theory and practical, covers topics which include local rules and regulations, flags, lights and shapes, safety procedures and boat manoeuvring.

The First Aid Course is delivered by an instructor held at the Parish Hall Ghajnsielem on Friday.

On Saturday, theory is held at Parish Hall Ghajnsielem, while practical sessions are held on an 18-foot rib at Mgarr Harbour.

A course textbook handout will be given either in Maltese or English as required.

Upon successful completion of course, students sit for a short oral exam which is also held in Gozo.

Once applicants have completed the Nautical Licence course the Malta Sailing Academy will submit the application to MCAST who will then eventually e-mail the Academy with the exam dates.

The Academy will sms each applicant his exam date and attendance must be confirmed.

It is also very important that applicants take their ID card with them for the course, as well as to the exam.

After successfully passing the exam applicants will receive a letter from MCAST informing them that they can pick up a temporary Nautical Licence paper. For this they will also need their ID card.

With the temporary licence in hand, the document must be taken to Transport Malta, along with two passport sized photos, €23.99 and ID card, for the actual Nautical Licence document.

Transport Malta will then send the Nautical Licence document by post.

Transport Malta requires all boat owners with engine or engines having combined power of more than 30HP to be in possession of the local Nautical Licence. The Licence is also mandatory for Jet Ski owners.

Nautical Licence courses will also be held in English on the 23rd and 24th of May. The times and other details, including the venue in Ghajnsielem will be the same as the Maltese courses.

A Google map is available for reference.

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RSS FEED, NEWSLETTER AND TWITTER TO RECEIVE OUR LATEST UPDATES OR SUBMIT YOUR OWN NEWS VIA EMAIL.
