
Blogger Hanna Booth and her husband helped spay/neuter alley dogs in Mexico. Mexico City authorities reportedly capture and kill an estimated 20,000 dogs per month in their city alone.

Blogger Hanna Booth and her husband helped spay/neuter alley dogs in Mexico. Mexico City authorities reportedly capture and kill an estimated 20,000 dogs per month in their city alone.

Blogger Hanna Booth and her husband helped spay/neuter alley dogs in Mexico. Mexico City authorities reportedly capture and kill an estimated 20,000 dogs per month in their city alone.

I was a taken aback at the extremes of overpopulation in these photos and felt thankful here in Ontario it’s more of a cat overpopulation problem versus dog overpopulation.

I’ll share with you a story of one well-intentioned, but misguided Mexican who went to great lengths trying to rescue the street dogs of Mexico City.

While this wasn’t the type of organization we would normally volunteer with, we couldn’t say no when we were asked to help sterilize this group of 5,000 rescued dogs that were still breeding and producing puppies.

Our jaws dropped when we arrived at his home. Words can’t describe the severity of the overcrowding and serious medical and behavioral concerns in this population of dogs. We were informed in the morning we would be driven a few hours into the hills to his “satellite” rescue that held the overflow of dogs. This site held a few thousand dogs at the time, but was being built to hold a capacity of 5,000 dogs.

While the surrounding hills were breathtaking, so was the stench of dog urine. The rescue had no hot water or electricity and we slept on the floor in a little shack. We did surgery in the food supply shed using food bags for one of our surgery tables.

We were informed that once a week, a vet supplied by the dog food company came to do sterilizations, and that we could work with him for our first day at the rescue.

This experience was an all-out shocker. The vet sterilized these dogs with a cigarette dangling from his mouth. He would splash his hands in a bucket of dirty/bloody water prior to the spay and never wore gloves. Rather than the traditional six knots for ligatures, he would tie two speedy throws before cutting his suture and dropping the vessels back into the abdomen without checking for bleeding.

My husband and I were astounded at how these dogs would survive the surgery.  Sure enough we woke the next morning to find a weak, pale dog with a belly full of blood. Over the week we spent at the rescue, we nursed her back to health and crossed our fingers she would find her way out of the rescue and into a loving adoptive home.

Oddly enough, this rescue didn’t make the effort to separate the males and females so many of the females were pregnant. We would establish our surgery list for the next day based on who we found mating when we did our rounds of the dog corals the previous evening.

While we could only make a small dent in sterilizing the population that week, it’s always been my intention to go back to the rescue with a team of volunteer vets to finish off the work and try to help establish some protocols for care and networks for adoption.

Mexico City, like most areas of Central America, face an enormous overpopulation of stray dogs. Mexico City authorities reportedly capture and kill an estimated 20,000 dogs per month in their city alone. The dogs are routinely held in a crowded facility for three days prior to euthanasia via electrocution. I suppose, in comparison, the plight of street cats of Toronto doesn’t seem nearly as bad.
