
Changes in guidance for Air Canada's  (TSX: AC.B     )  first-quarter results created a whipsaw effect in the airline's stock price during the past few months. But the report is out, so investors finally get to see the Q1 results, and an outlook for Q2 and the rest of 2014. Additionally, the report gave an update on the airline's fleet renewal program..

The first quarter of 2014 was an "all of the above" when it comes to rough winter weather. Airlines were forced to cancel or delay flights due to standard things like ice and snow, but also due to temperatures sometimes falling 20 degrees below zero.

In the U.S., Delta Air Lines (NYSE: DAL     )  grew Q1 profits year over year when excluding special items, despite that the airline cancelled more than 17,000 flights, costing $55 million in pre-tax income. However, Air Canada's Star Alliance partner, United Continental Holdings (NYSE: UAL     ) , did not live up to expectations. Poor Q1 performance at United Continental sent shares down around 10% as the results seemed to confirm previous market skepticism about the airline.

Unlike previous Air Canada earnings releases, which resulted in double-digit share price moves, the response to this release was much more muted. Largely due to foreign exchange losses, Air Canada's loss increased to C$1.20 per diluted share from C$0.95 per diluted share a year earlier. However, on an adjusted basis, the airline did show improvement, posting a loss of $132 million compared to the prior year's $143 million dollars, and beating analyst expectations per diluted share by C$0.01.

While the results were nothing special, the outlook given by Air Canada looks strongly positive. First, the airline reiterated its plans to grow capacity by 6.5% to 8% total, but only 3%-4% in the domestic market. This continues with the strategy to grow revenue overall while not saturating the domestic market.

As Air Canada works to bring down costs, its outlook gives some positive guidance. Now, the airline expects to reduce cost per available seat mile, or CASM, by 3%-4% compared to its guidance in April of a CASM decrease of 2.5%-3.5%.  For an airline the size of Air Canada, cutting costs by this extent should have a positive effect on profits.

Indeed, much of Air Canada's efforts have focused on cost-cutting. From launching high-density configurations to starting Air Canada rouge to even removing the paper manuals from aircraft and replacing them with lighter digital versions, cutting costs has been one of the main ways Air Canada has been able to recover during the past few years.

It's no secret that I've been bullish on Air Canada for a while now having owned shares of the airline since it traded around $2 per share. But with little movement after this report, it doesn't look like the market is giving Air Canada enough credit for the forecasted cost-cutting.

While this investment still remains above average in risk, if the airline can execute on its CASM goals while growing internationally, 2014 could be another good year for Air Canada.

Give me five minutes. and I'll show how you could own the best stock for 2014. Every year, The Motley Fool's chief investment officer hand-picks one stock with outstanding potential. But it's not just any run-of-the-mill company. It's a stock perfectly positioned to cash in on one of the upcoming year's most lucrative trends. Last year, his pick skyrocketed 134%. And previous top picks have gained upwards of 908%, 1,252%,and 1,303% during the subsequent years! Believe me, you don't want to miss what could be his biggest winner yet! Just click  here  to download your free copy of " The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014 " today.

Alexander MacLennan owns shares of Air Canada and Delta Air Lines. Alexander MacLennan has the following options: long January 2015 $22 calls on Delta Air Lines, long January 2015 $25 calls on Delta Air Lines, and long January 2015 $30 calls on Delta Air Lines. This article is not an endorsement to buy or sell any security and does not constitute professional investment advice. Always do your own due diligence before buying or selling any security. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Be the first one to comment on this article.

Your Fool username will be displayed with your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
