
Subscribe Our Weekly Newsletter!

Please enter the valid email address.

All might be well in the Parks/Nida household now, but Apollo Nida has revealed his attraction for Kenya Moore as well as hinted that he and Phaedra Parks are having marital problems.

During a The Real Housewives of Atlanta men tell all special that aired on Bravo Sunday, the husbands of the stars got together for guy talk. Kandi Burruss' husband Todd Tucker, NeNe Leakes' husband Gregg, as well as Cynthia Bailey's husband Peter Thomas all took the opportunity to call out Nida for his obvious attraction to Moore.

Thomas reminded him of their unforgettable trip to Mexico when Nida couldn't help but eye Moore as she walked up the steps in a yellow bikini.

Nida tried to play it off and said, "I was looking at the horizon" until Thomas also reminded him that they were in a cave and a horizon was nowhere in sight.

Nida then simply laughed and said, "I don't mean no harm I'm not trying to make anybody feel a certain way...I got eyes."

While Nida possibly didn't mean anything by checking out Moore, it didn't help that it was actually the former Miss USA he was eyeing; considering she was accused of coming on to him for the entire sixth season.

On top of that, he implied that he and Parks are still having issues within their marriage. He revealed that he attempted to make it better by purchasing  her a luxurious BMW. But unfortunately she didn't like it.

"That hurt bad. Because I tried. I really tried. A car? I could go get a bum broad on the street a Kia for $8,000 and she'll be pleased. It hurt me to my heart. But you know what? Two days later she went out and she bought her own car.

When the guys asked why she didn't like the car he said, "I think because Apollo Nida bough it."

Check out what else he had to say.

Featured Video : Angie Martinez Leaves Hot97 to Join Power 105.1, Chelsea Handler's New Show with Netflix, and Lupita on Vogue in New Entertainment Buzz!

Please enter the valid email address.

The fourth episode of 'The Mentalist' season 7 will be called "Pink Rocks."
