
Prime Minister, Tuilaepa Sa’ilele Malielegaoi, has defended writing a letter of support for a man convicted of rape in New Zealand.

He has also questioned whether the conviction was “erroneous” given that the man he wrote in support of, Fatu Seti, could not speak “proper” English.

“There are some areas that the judges may not understand,” said the Prime Minister.

Tuilaepa also suggested that the truth does not always win during Court cases.

Mr. Seti fled New Zealand eight years ago when he was accused of raping a 19-year-old woman from Waiheke Island.

Extradited to face trial, he was sentenced by the Auckland District Court earlier this month to four years and seven months in prison.

The sentence was later increased to nearly six years.

Last week, Opposition leader, Palusalue Fa’apo II, attacked the letter of support from Tuilaepa.

He said it was “disgraceful” and inappropriate.

Palusalue said that no other country would see its leader writing letters of support for a sex offender.

He also criticized the Speaker, Laaulialemalietoa Leuatea Polataivao, and an unnamed police chief for writing character references for Mr. Seti.

But Tuilaepa was unrepentant.

In response, he turned to the Bible for justification. He said that Gospel teachings are to help anyone, even prisoners.

But whether a man is convicted of rape or murder, it is all the same, said Tuilaepa.

“My letter to the judges suggested that if they find him guilty, they can deport him back to Samoa,” he said “This is a common thing in New Zealand and America, that if they find a Samoan guilty they can deport them back to their country.” Tuilaepa suggested that the Opposition criticism represents a failure to live by the Gospel.

He again referred to the Bible.

He'll certainly get deported alright, but not until after his free accomodation at Her Majesty's New Zealand prison.

Does the PM write letters of support for all the rapists and murderers at Tafaigata? No.

Let's not beat around the bush here. The PM has written a letter in support because the guy owns a hotel in Samoa.
