
We flew into KL's new airport and immediately felt like we were in a thriving city- part of the airport was a giant shopping mall, so we had a wander round. Straight away I noticed that KL is all about food- there were so many restaurants and food shops that all looked amazing but mainly lots of bakeries, they love sweet things. I went to a really cool donut shop which was just full of every design and flavour of donut you could ever imagine. I wanted to try them all!

The taxi into town was quite expensive so we decided to wait for the bus. The bus man was crazily singing or wailing along to Counting Stars when we got to the bus with his headphones on so that made me laugh.

As we drove into the city it remind me of Singapore quite a lot, very organised and well maintained. Compared to Cambodia and Vietnam there was hardly any litter either.

. It was right in the middle of the China town market. After getting up at 3am we were exhausted and a storm started outside, some of the loudest thunder I've ever heard. I have also been trying to find a job in Australia so I had to wait in to have some interviews.

My Skypes took longer than I thought and by the time we had found a taxi we only had 30 minutes to get to the Petronas Towers as I had booked us on a tour for that evening. The traffic was ridiculous an the traffic lights took so long to change that we almost didn't make it. We just got there in time! Luckily they put us on the next tour, so we didn't miss anything.

The first thing we did was go up to the 43rd floor to the Sky bridge that joins both towers. This was very cool  and you could see all across town. They told us the bridge is not properly attached to the towers, there is gap to allow for the towers moving in the wind- how crazy is that?!

Then we took another lift up to the 86th floor to the observation deck, which is in one of the towers. You can see the other tower from here but the bridge is too far below to see. The views were even more spectacular up here and the other skyscrapers looked small in comparison. The view from the Burj Khalifa is still supreme- think it was the 123rd floor we went to there. Amazing!

First stop was the Sri Massaman Hindu temple which was right next to our hotel. It was very bright colourful and full of Hindu Gods. When we arrived there were lots of people worshipping their Gods- lighting candles, praying and walking around holding different things I'm not quite sure what it all meant but it was very interesting to watch. As usual lots of people were staring at is, as there weren't many tourists there. After this, we headed through a flower market area people where Hindu people were threading flower garlands to sell to people going to the temple, there were also rows and rows of colourful bouquets and people negotiating and buying things everywhere. It was so busy and bright.

We went to the food court and I had Mee Rebus, which was like a thick noodle soup, it was almost a curry sauce, with chicken, bean sprouts, a boiled egg and pork scratching bits.

After our rest we decided to head to Bukit Bintang which is an area of KL known for it's shopping and food. We somehow managed to get there on the bus but Catherine had fallen and hurt her ankle the day before so the long walk from the bus station to the centre was not fun for her.

We pottered around looking at different shops and exploring BB. I love that KL is such a mixture of different nationalities- there are Iraqi and Iranian kebab shops, Chinese restaurants, traditional Malay cuisine and Balinese food, all on one street.

There were huge kebab stalls, full of strange things cooked on skewers! Lots of people were eating with he hot plates and cooking their own food- we still need to try this! I was too full to have much, but I did try a crazy dessert where you pick some coloured blancmange type stuff and then sugar syrup and jelly and fruit pieces. I loved how childlike it was!
