
AT&T's proposed DirecTV merger comes with a vague net neutrality commitment.

AT&T yesterday offered to follow the FCC's old net neutrality rules for three years if the government approves its acquisition of DirecTV .

Even though the FCC's 2010 Open Internet Order was largely overturned by a federal appeals court this year, AT&T said its merger with DirecTV would come with a "continued commitment for three years after closing to the FCC's Open Internet protections established in 2010, irrespective of whether the FCC re-establishes such protections for other industry participants following the DC Circuit Court of Appeals vacating those rules."

But AT&T hasn't said exactly how it interprets those rules. Judging by statements made by Comcast, AT&T could argue that the 2010 rules allow the controversial Internet "fast lanes" in which Web services pay Internet service providers for priority access to consumers over the network's last mile.

The AT&T proposal is modeled after a seven-year commitment Comcast made when it purchased NBCUniversal in 2011. Comcast essentially agreed to follow the 2010 Open Internet Order until 2018 regardless of whether it held up in court.

But in two statements last week, Comcast Executive VP David Cohen said he doesn't think the 2010 order prohibits fast lanes or paid prioritization.

"I believe that whatever it is, a fast lane, paid prioritization, whatever you want to call it, has been completely legal for 15 or 20 years," Cohen said in a talk with investors ( transcript ). "Before they were [called] open Internet, they were not covered in [former FCC Chairman] Michael Powell's principles... [T]hey were not covered in the 2010 order, although the chairman said at the time that he would likely view them skeptically and was sort of a warning to everyone, be careful what you do in this space, whatever it is."

The 2010 order banned discrimination and said paid prioritization would likely not be allowed. "[B]roadband providers that sought to offer pay-for-priority services would have an incentive to limit the quality of service provided to non-prioritized traffic," the rules state . "For a number of reasons... a commercial arrangement between a broadband provider and a third party to directly or indirectly favor some traffic over other traffic in the broadband Internet access service connection to a subscriber of the broadband provider (i.e. 'pay for priority') would raise significant cause for concern. ... [A]s a general matter, it is unlikely that pay for priority would satisfy the 'no unreasonable discrimination' standard."

There are exceptions for "reasonable network management" and "specialized services," including the ISP's own VoIP and video offerings. Analyst Craig Moffett said to Cohen that these allowances could be seen as "the same thing" as paid prioritization. Cohen said the order "did not prohibit paid prioritization. So whatever it is, we are allowed to do it."

Cohen repeated in a follow-up blog post that fast lanes or paid prioritization "were not covered by the 2010 Open Internet Order and that, therefore, I did not believe that they were illegal."

Comcast's  NBC agreement with the US government  has a carveout for specialized services, which may support Cohen's argument. The agreement says, "If Comcast offers any Specialized Service that makes content from one or more third parties available to... its subscribers, Comcast shall allow any other comparable Person to be included in a similar Specialized Service on a nondiscriminatory basis." The agreement broadly defines Specialized Services as "any service provided over the same last-mile facilities used to deliver Internet Access Service other than Internet Access Services," regulated telecommunications services, or Comcast's VoIP service.

Despite Comcast's views, Cohen said the company has not offered paid prioritization and has no plans to do so. We asked a Comcast spokesperson to further explain Comcast's interpretation of its net neutrality commitments, but the spokesperson simply repeated what Cohen had already said.

So what about AT&T? The company did not clarify what it means by following the 2010 Open Internet Order in either its SEC filing  or a conference call it held with investors today. We've asked an AT&T spokesperson for an explanation but haven't received an answer yet.

Network neutrality advocates generally argue that letting ISPs sell priority access to deep-pocketed Web services will disadvantage smaller competitors and give ISPs incentive to not invest in infrastructure that carries non-prioritized traffic. But like Comcast, AT&T could argue that it can follow net neutrality rules and still charge Web services for fast lanes.

"If all they're saying is they'll follow the 2010 rules, I'm sure it's their own interpretation of what those rules allow," Senior Staff Attorney John Bergmayer of consumer advocacy group Public Knowledge told Ars. "It's probably in its interest to keep things as vague as possible."

Jon Brodkin / Jon is Ars Technica's senior IT reporter, covering business technology,  the FCC and broadband, telecommunications, supercomputing, data centers, and wireless technology.

Don't have an Ars account? It’s fast and easy to register for one.

If you don't have an account yet it's free and easy.
