
The first witness claimed in testimony he was never ordered to fire at civilians.

THE HAGUE, Netherlands, May 19 (UPI) -- The defense phase in the long war crimes trial of Ratko Mladic began Monday in The Hague, Netherlands.

Mladic, 72, is accused of 11 charges of conducting a prolonged assault of the city of Sarajevo during the 1992-1995 Balkans war, and specifically of a role in the deaths of 7,000 men and boys at Srebrenica. He has denounced the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, and has claimed he was merely a soldier following instructions.

Mile Sladoje , former Serbian army assistant commander, was the first witness called in Mladic's defense Monday. He denied receiving orders from Mladic to target civilians during a three-year campaign that killed over 10,000 people in Sarajevo.

"All our activities were defense activities. There were standing orders; fire could only be returned in response to enemy fire," Sladoje said in testimony. "I know nobody gave orders to shoot civilians."

The defense has been afforded 207 hours to call witnesses, the same amount of time prosecutors used.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
