
Leading international designer, Emilie Baltz has been confirmed as the Keynote speaker for July’s International Food Design Experience, Conference and Studio hosted by the Food Design Institute at the Otago Polytechnic.

Baltz, who is based between New York City and Paris, is a member of the founding faculty of the New York’s Graduate School of Visual Arts Products of Design program as well as the founder of the Food Design Studio at the Pratt Institute in NYC. She is author of "L.O.V.E FOODBOOK", recipient of ‘Best First Cookbook in the World’ from the Prix Gourmand in France; as well as the cookbook, "Junk Foodie: 51 Delicious Recipes for the Lowbrow Gourmand". A trained dancer and photographer, Emilie works to create experiences at the intersection of design, photography, performance and curation that provoke the five senses.

Her food design commissions over the past six months include; Traces - an eating experience using the table as canvas, delivering guests food into their hands or directly onto the table, engaging them in a hands-on dinner. Lickestra - a musical licking performance, with a series of conductive ice creams that trigger various baselines and tones when licked so the eater becomes a performer.

Art Director and Curator of PLAY - the new bar at the New York Museum of Sex. Emilie developed a series of artist-crafted cocktails and provocative artwork. PLAY was named one of the Best New Bars of NYC for 2013.

London food designer, Chloé Morris will curate the Food Design Conference and Studio Gala Dinner. Morris is founder of Edible Stories and is collaborating with the Bachelor of Culinary Arts School students and staff to create an unforgettable dining experience. Chloe who has a BA in Interior Architecture spends her time combining ingredients to create truly spectacular Edible Stories.

Three of New Zealand’s cutting edge chefs and designers are combining to give a keynote address. Michael Meredith of Auckland’s Meredith’s; Guilio Sturla of Roots in Lyttelton and ice cream genius Gianpaolo Grazioli will share their creative philosophies.
