
According to a new report from Bloomberg , which did some probing into patents and graphene research groups, Apple , Samsung , and Google are in a “race” to acquire the patents and other intellectual property that will allow for the use of the material in mobile devices and wearables. With the global mobile market expected to reach $847 billion by 2016, there’s an awful lot of money at stake — and so far, it seems Samsung is winning.

In 2013, the UK Intellectual Property Office published the authoritative report on the current state of graphene-related patents — and thus by extension, a pretty good measure of which companies are plowing the most time and dollars into graphene research. The leader, by a huge margin, is Samsung with 405 worldwide patent applications, spanning 210 patent families for graphene-related inventions/discoveries. Samsung also has tight ties with Sungkyunkwan University, the second largest graphene patent holder. The next big name is IBM, with just 64 patent families, and then other players like Xerox, Fujitsu, and SanDisk with around 30. Apple and Google are nowhere to be found. Beyond the corporate players, most of the patents are actually being filed by universities in Asia, with China rapidly accelerating to become one of the main players in the last two years.

Where does this leave Apple and Google? Neither company has historically had strong R&D departments. Google is slowly getting up to speed, but it’s still a very young company compared to IBM or Samsung. Following the iPhone and iPad, Apple has stepped up its research into wireless tech, to try and compete with the likes of Qualcomm and Nokia on next-gen cellular standards — but when it comes to chemistry and materials science, it barely registers. It’s not all bad though: Despite the smaller R&D budgets, both Google and Apple are doing fine — they just approach the problem from a different angle. While IBM and Samsung work from the ground up, Apple and Google are much more about selling products. Samsung wants to make the graphene and graphene chips — Apple wants to make the product that uses a graphene chip or flexible graphene display to make another 100 billion dollars.

It surprises me not seeing Intel there. A viable graphene process delivering everything has been promising, could get Intel out of business.

Hehe. Well, as I have mentioned before. there are some who think graphene isn’t a very sensible research target at all. Intel is probably one of those companies.

I really didn’t expect Samsung to be such a huge player in the graphene R&D department. Kinda shocking.

samsung produces almost everything (excavators to electronics) so they can use it on everything.

From my convos with IBM, they are doing graphene research because everyone else is doing it :) Even if CNTs are more likely to be the next big thing, there’s too much attention/PR/etc on graphene right now.

Cheers.

P.-S.: though the “world’s best fusion reactor” is located in Oxfordshire, that doesn’t make UK itself “the first to break even with fusion power”. It’s an international project.

Yes, I should probably do a story explaining the differences between graphene and CNT! good idea.

as for “where are they now?” — that’s a bit harder.

Heh, hailing from the other side of the Channel, I couldn’t help but notice that!

I’m going through several articles about graphene, and indeed the amount of research put behind is dizzying. There’s also several different attempts at mixing graphene with CNT, apparently.

Then, perhaps you could also give us insights about how graphene and CNT could play along through their differences (e.g. devices incorporating both materials, with graphene likely to be used for this kind of part and CNT for that kind of part), and which other materials they are likely replace in consumer products, or maybe supplement.

I’ve heard of at least one approach which “grows” CNTs from a sheet of graphene, quite fascinating. I think that was on this website, actually.

As with any new material, graphene has not yet benefited from economies of scale. The cost of graphene, the method by which it is produced and the quality of graphene is all interlinked. The best quality of graphene currently available commercially costs £1,000 per sq.mm., available from the University of Manchester start-up company 2DTech.

That would be a great article.  I’d love to see the two laid out.

Seems absurd though for Intel to put all of its eggs in one basket given the stakes, and the money that it has.  Of course I’d suggest Apple spend 10-15 billion on this as well.  It would be a much smarter move than keeping the money in the bank.

Companies like Samsung that are very multifaceted from smartphones to clothes dryers should be heavily into R&D on most all materials that could be groundbreaking. Especially one as promising as this.

I was about to post to point this fact. Samsung is a conglomerate spanning very different product areas, which could all benefit from graphene in some form.

I would also be interested in boron nitride articles.  There is interest in a whole group of hexagonal 2 dimensional sheets for use in metamaterials.  Graphene and boron nitride bilayers are being used to construct field effect transistors.  Most of this is above my paygrade so I would love someone who can shed some light on this area.

“Despite the smaller R&D budgets, both Google and Apple are doing fine — they just approach the problem from a different angle.” That’s right. They wait for a small company to do it and then they “acquire” it.

Subscribe Today to get the latest ExtremeTech news delivered right to your inbox.
