
(ANSAmed) - NAPLES - Starting with the memory of cultural heritage to design the future of the Mediterranean cities is the aim of the international conference "The Memory of the Future", due to take place Tuesday and Wednesday in the auditorium of the excavations of Pompeii.

"The Memory of the Future: the value of communication in the cultural dialogue of Mediterannean cities" was organized by ANSA, with its specialized ANSAmed news agency.

The meeting will gather together international policy makers with media representatives around three themes: dialogue and culture in the Mediterranean; culture as an economic value and identity of the city; the role of communication in cultural information in Mare Nostrum.

"There is a great need", emphasized ANSA's CEO, Giuseppe Cerbone, "to create new policy dialogue between Europe and the southern Mediterranean. It will also reduce the information gap of the area, the subject of international media attention only when there are conflicts or disasters. What is needed to help improve the image is to emphasize that the Mediterranean can become a part of the world able to create solid prospects of economic, tourism and, above all, cultural progression".

The Mediterranean sea will be seen as multi-ethnic body of water, in addition to recording conflicts, which has lived and lives large opportunities of cultural coexistence, always turned into mutual enrichment of experiences and memories. In this perspective, ANSAmed (the ANSA network for the Mediterranean), created 10 years ago in Naples, plays a relevant role in the exchange of information and cultural communications with waterside countries.

"After ten years of experience", said ANSA Editor in Chief Luigi Contu, "ANSAmed has established itself as an information platform that can help to create a true Mediterranean culture, a platform for dialogue between governmental institutions and associations that promote cultural cooperation. A decades-long experience in the area increased thanks to a network of information that collaborates with the most important media of 22 countries in the area". "ANSAmed", added Cerbone "is not only a press agency. It is a cultural project involving the full terms of training, the technology transfer and the creation of events".

During the conference, the Mediterranean will be observed as the central place of cultural exchanges that have Naples and Campania for reference. "To this end we inserted the Universal Cultural Forum event in the program. We will focus on the Mediterranean, on its shared roots that must be cultivated without being blocked by contrast elements that also exist", said Caterina Miraglia, Councillor for Cultural Heritage of the Region Campania.

Many prominent guests, including Francesca Barracciu, Undersecretary for Tourism and Culture, Riccardo Monti, President of the Italian Institute for Foreign Trade, Luigi Nicolais, President of the National Research Council, and Paul Walton, executive director of the Foundation Anna Lindh, will be welcomed by Stefano Caldoro, President of the Campania Region. Among those participants is also Khalid Chaouki, President of the Culture Commission for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. "In one moment in which the different sides of the Mediterranean are struggling to understand each other", Chaouki said, "it is a priority to relaunch moments of dialogue and cooperation between companies and institutions".

Other participants at the conference will include Alexander Barbano, editor in chief of Il Mattino, Antonio Polito, editor in chief of the Corriere del Mezzogiorno and foreign guests Laure Sleiman Saab, editor in chief of the Lebanese press agency NNA, Mohamed Sabreen, editor in chief of the Egyptian daily Al- Ahram, Abdelkrim Hizaoui, Riyadh El-Hassan, President of AMAN (Alliance of Mediterranean news Agency). (ANSAmed).
