
Few hours after a a bomb blast rocked the Owerri residence of the immediate past governor of Imo state, Ikedi Ohakim, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state has alleged that the incident was an assassination attempt on the ex-governor by his political enemies.

Briefing newsmen on Thursday evening after the incident at the party secretariat, the state party secretary, George Eguh, while condemning “the terrorist act” noted that PDP has never attempted such an action throughout its 12 years of administering the state.

Rather, he said that the party has always relied on the rule of law in any given circumstances. Noting that the bomb incident was alien to the state, he called on relevant security agencies to quickly bring the perpetrators to justice.

Eguh wondered why the incident coincided with the return of Ohakim and his family from a medical check-up abroad and noted that if the former governor and his family had not decided at the last minute to spend the night at their country home in Isiala Mbano, tragedy would have struck.

LEADERSHIP weekend also gathered from a reliable source that the incident comes just a few days to Ohakim’s declaration of his interest in vying for the governorship position again.

Reacting to the assassination plot theory, the state government, in a counter briefing of newsmen, advised the PDP to look inward rather than pointing accusing fingers.

Commissioner for information and strategy, Theodore Ekechi, condemned the act and sympathised with Ohakim, while maintaining that the PDP members should search their conscience.

A copy of SSCE, NECO, GCE certificate or statement of result..

A copy of International passport.

A copy of Birth Certificate (optional).

A copy of your recent Passport Photo.

Certificate (WAEC or NECO).

1. Scanned copies of an official transcript of all university-level courses taken.

2. Scanned copy of Bachelor/Master degree certificate received from a university or equivalent institutions.

3. Three letters of reference (at least one academic).

4. Documents;

a.

discipline).

b. Scanned copy of your international passport bio data page or valid I.D. card.

c. Scanned copy of Two passport-sized photographs.

d. All other professional certifications/official documents to support your application.
