
TD Bank Promotes Kathy Granlund to Vice President, Relationship Manager in Orleans, Mass.

ORLEANS, Mass, (May 19, 2014) – TD Bank, America’s Most Convenient Bank®, has promoted Kathy H. Granlund to Vice President, Relationship Manager in Commercial Banking in Orleans, Mass.  She is responsible for providing a range of lending services and deposit products to Cape Cod businesses from Provincetown to South Yarmouth.

Granlund has 13 years of banking experience. She joined TD Bank in 2001 and held a variety of positions in retail banking on Cape Cod before her most recent position as Store Manager in Provincetown.

A resident of Wellfleet, Granlund serves on the board for the Wellfleet Chamber Scholarship Fund, is a former PTA Treasure and volunteers with various groups in her community. She is a 1987 graduate of Assumption College in Worcester, Mass. Granlund grew up in Shrewsbury, Mass., graduated from Shrewsbury High School in 1982.

TD Bank focuses on delivering legendary customer service by providing seven-day branch banking with extended hours, Penny Arcade coin-counting machines, hassle-free products, free online banking and bill pay at  www.tdbank.com , and treats for kids and dogs. Customers also have access to a network of 2,700 ATMs from Maine to Florida.

TD Bank, America's Most Convenient Bank, is one of the 10 largest banks in the U.S., providing more than 8 million customers with a full range of retail, small business and commercial banking products and services at approximately 1,300 convenient locations throughout the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Metro D.C., the Carolinas and Florida. In addition, TD Bank and its subsidiaries offer customized private banking and wealth management services through TD Wealth®, and vehicle financing and dealer commercial services through TD Auto Finance. TD Bank is headquartered in Cherry Hill, N.J. To learn more, visit  www.tdbank.com . Find TD Bank on Facebook at  www.facebook.com/TDBank  and on Twitter at  www.twitter.com/TDBank_US .

©2014 Wolfe Public Relations. All Rights Reserved.
