
Alot is reported about Nigeria in the news every day.  However, much of this is bad.  Nigerians are people the world seems to love to hate.  When you read about Nigeria, corruption is often the preferred topic.  Then there are the kidnappings and the Boko Haram terrorism.

But alongside all the bad press, there is a quiet revolution going on in Nigeria.  Indeed, it could be argued that all the turmoil currently going on represent the birth-pangs of a nascent Nigeria.  A new Nigeria that is vibrant, progressive and industrious.  A new Nigeria that President Barack Obama of the United States proclaimed is a strategic centre of gravity in Africa and perhaps the world’s next economic giant.

Indeed, within the last three years, Nigeria has emerged as the preferred destination for foreign investments in Africa, driven by successful government policies to attract foreign investors. For the second year running, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, UNCTAD, has ranked Nigeria as the number one destination for investments in Africa, and as having the fourth highest returns in the world.

There is a face to this new emergent Nigeria.  That face belongs to Aliko Dangote, a 56- year-old man from the mercantilist state of Kano in Northern Nigeria. Dangote has become without a doubt Africa’s leading industrialist and entrepreneur.  His success proclaims the new Nigeria of today and tomorrow.  It shows that behind all the brouhaha, Nigerians are beginning to take their rightful place as Africa’s leading entrepreneurs; thereby proclaiming Nigeria itself as a major frontier market in international relations.

The rise in Dangote’s fortunes has been meteoric.  In his own words: “About 10 years ago, I bought a company for $4 million. It is worth $21 billion today.”  Dangote made his first showing on Forbes list of the world’s billionaires in 2008, with a fortune estimated at $3.3 billion.  By 2011, this had jumped by 400% to $13.8 billion.  By November 2013, his fortune had jumped again to $20.8 billion.  By March 2014, his fortune had jumped again, this time to $25 billion, making him by far the richest man in Africa according to Forbes Magazine; and the 23rd richest man in the world.

This is an amazing feat for an African and a Nigerian.  It is necessary to put Dangote’s wealth within a framework whereby one can fully appreciate how far he has come in so short a time.  Dangote is now far richer than Alisher Usmanov, the richest man in Russia.  He is also richer than Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man.  Furthermore, Dangote, who has long overtaken Oprah Winfrey on the world’s list of Black billionaires, is now nearly as rich as Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg.

Today, his Dangote Group mills flour, processes salt, and produces pasta and fertilizer.  Its sugar refinery is the second-largest in the world, producing 800,000 tons annually.  It is the main supplier of sugar to Nigeria’s soft drinks companies, breweries and confectioners.   The Group exports cotton, cashew-nuts, cocoa, sesame seed and ginger to several countries. It also has major investments in real estate, banking, transport, textiles and oil and gas.

But the jewel in the crown of Dangote’s business conglomerate is his cement factories.  Thanks mainly to Dangote, Nigeria no longer imports cement, but is a major world producer.  In 2007, Dangote commissioned a one-billion dollar cement factory in Obajana, Nigeria; the largest in Africa.  Dangote Cement now employs 26,000 workers in Nigeria alone. Dangote Cement is now valued at $20.5 billion, the first Nigerian company to surpass $20 billion in market capitalisation.  Indeed, Dangote Cement alone currently accounts for more than one-quarter of the total market capitalisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange.

Dangote’s focus on Africa has been highly profitable, especially for his growing cement business.  Africa is the continent with the highest growth-rate of urbanisation in the world.  This means there is high demand for housing in the cities.  There is also a construction boom on the continent as it has experienced some of the highest growth-rates in the world over the last few years.  This also means the demand for building infrastructure, such as rails, roads and ports has skyrocketed in recent times.

Some have insisted that Dangote’s success is the result of government favouritism.  There is no doubt that the Nigerian government has been very supportive of Dangote over the years.  At one time or the other, Dangote was given exclusive rights to import sugar, cement, and rice.  This enabled him to do volume business and to undercut his local competitors.  Preferential tariffs also favoured Dangote in many areas of his business concerns.

However, the reason behind this is that Dangote is always careful to ensure that his business complements government policies.  He makes a point of partnering with governments and their policies, rather than seeing them as adversaries and obstacles.  Because of this, Nigerian governments that have been inclined to promote local business have been highly supportive of Dangote, seeing his business as a locomotive for encouraging the investment of Nigerian wealth in Nigeria.

Government support for local business has not been limited to Dangote.  However, Dangote is one man who has been able to translate such incentives into self-sufficiency.  His pioneering role as a serious Nigerian industrialist enabled him to win bids in the privatisation of state-owned production facilities such as the Benue Cement Company and the Savannah Sugar Company.  His Midas touch has also led to his being given the permission to construct his own berth at the Apapa port in Lagos where ships with production inputs offload directly at the Dangote Group factory.

Accordingly, Dangote reportedly contributed a lot of money to Obasanjo’s election as president of Nigeria in 1999 and again in 2003.  He also gave N200 million to Obasanjo’s presidential library.  In 2008, Dangote promised to donate cement to the value of N3 billion for the construction of the national secretariat of the PDP in Abuja.  He is unabashed about such close affiliation with the governing party.

Within the framework of the Nigerian economy, Aliko Dangote is the man of the moment.  Here is a man who not only makes money; he creates wealth.  Without a doubt, Dangote has been a major economic asset to Nigeria.  With a few more entrepreneurs like him, Nigeria would be dragged kicking and screaming into the industrial age.  We would no longer be a nation of buyers and sellers of foreign goods and services, but would begin to take our rightful place as the epicenter of renascent African economic Prometheus.
