
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to tucson.com. You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

Anyone who has been felled by nausea and diarrhea lately is not alone.

March through May is high season for the highly contagious norovirus in Pima County.

The illness is often misidentified as "stomach flu" and typically lasts 24 to 48 hours. In rare cases it can be life-threatening. Since it's so contagious it can cause outbreaks in places where large groups of people live or congregate such as long-term care facilities, schools and social gatherings.

Norovirus are actually a group of viruses that are the most common cause of gastroenteritis in the U.S. Gastroenteritis means inflammation of the stomach and intestines.

Typical symptoms include nausea, throwing up, diarrhea and stomach cramps. Occasionally, people will also experience mild fever, chills, headache, body aches and feel very tired.

The illness can be easily spread to other people through direct contact and contact with contaminated surfaces.

Children usually throw up more often than adults.

While unpleasant, the illness typically doesn’t last long. For most people, symptoms last 24 to 48 hours with no long-term health effects.

However, it can be more severe among the very young, the elderly and people with weakened immune systems. More severe forms of the illness are generally related to dehydration.

State health officials advise washing hands regularly for prevention.

Patients should seek medical attention if they notice blood in their stool; are running a high fever; if symptoms last more than three days; if they feel dizzy or faint more often than usual; if they cannot keep any fluids down due to vomiting; and if they have muscle cramping in legs and arms.

Women who are current smokers and use an Android smartphone may be eligible to take part in a University of Arizona study on women who want to quit smoking but are worried about weight gain.

A new study, led by Judith Gordon , associate head of research for the Department of Family and Community Medicine at the UA College of Medicine – Tucson, will develop and test a mobile phone application designed to help women stop smoking while learning to eat more healthfully and increasing their physical activity.

The National Cancer Institute has awarded $365,000  for the two-year project.

The app includes guided-imagery messages designed to boost positive body image and to persuade a woman that she can and will be stronger, healthier and happier by eating well, being physically active and not smoking.

In the first phase of the study, 10 to 20 Tucson-area women who want to quit smoking but are worried about weight gain will review the app and provide feedback.

In the second phase of the study, the app will be available free on the Google Play Store, and 50 women from across the country will test the feasibility and acceptability of the app.

The results will be used to apply for funding for a larger National Cancer Institute study.

Participants will be compensated. For more information, call Perlana Howard , UA Department of Family and Community Medicine, at 626-4188.

Copyright 2014 Arizona Daily Star. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
