
NEW YORK — Blackstone Group has agreed to sell five office properties in the Boston area for $2.1 billion, disposing of part of a sprawling real estate portfolio it bought before the financial crisis, a person briefed on the matter said Sunday.

The buyers are led by a Canadian real estate investment firm, Oxford Properties Group, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the deal. It is Blackstone’s largest sale of office space in the United States since the crisis.

Blackstone, a private equity firm, acquired the properties when it bought Equity Office Properties Trust, a landlord built by the Chicago real estate magnate Samuel Zell, for $39 billion in 2007. Blackstone quickly sold hundreds of the properties to buyers including the real estate mogul Harry B. Macklowe.

The commercial real estate market has recovered since the downturn wreaked havoc on the Equity Office properties and created big losses for Macklowe and others. Blackstone kept properties including the towers in Boston.

Blackstone plunged into the residential real estate market after the downturn, buying distressed properties to rent out. More recently, it has been selling properties including commercial holdings. The Boston deal, for 3.2 million square feet of office space, would be its biggest US office sale since the downturn.

Oxford would buy all of 100 High St. and 125 Summer St., The Wall Street Journal reported earlier. It plans to partner with J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.’s asset-management arm to buy 60 State St., 225 Franklin St., and One Memorial Drive  in Cambridge.

Oxford declined to comment.

Blackstone is also selling its ownership stake in another building in the portfolio, Rowes Wharf, to Morgan Stanley, its partner in the building.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
