
Referring to a spate of accidents which rocked the Indian Navy in the recent past, Admiral R.K. Dhowan, Chief of Naval Staff, said on Monday that the Navy has put all the safety measures in place.

His predecessor Admiral D.K. Joshi had resigned in February this year after an accident on-board submarine INS Sindhuratna left two officers dead and seven injured. Admiral Joshi had taken the moral responsibility of nearly a dozen mishaps which took place since August last year.

“The incidents that have happened have been analysed thoroughly at every level. We have put a safety audit organisation in place. We have reiterated that organisation to see that all Standard Operating Procedures are followed,” Admiral Dhowan said.

He was on his maiden visit to the Western Naval Command headquarter after taking over as the Naval chief. He inspected the ceremonial parade at INS Shikra in the morning.

He reiterated that the mishaps had dented the Navy’s image, and emphasised on teamwork and proper training to tide over the problems.

While talking about the probe into the mishaps, he said the authorities had put in place the measures for safety standards even before the completion of the enquiry.

He refused to answer questions on his appointment, stating that it was the government’s decision. “I am a professional and will carry out my duties as far as the office of the Chief of Naval Staff is concerned with professional integrity and pride,” he said.

Admiral Dhowan said that the Western Naval Command played an important role in handling the maritime challenges faced by the country. He said the command was proud that fully trained pilots were operating aircrafts on the recently inducted aircraft carrier Vikramaditya, inducted in the western naval fleet. The aircraft carrier is completely operational now.

He said the Navy will emphasise on indigenous production of radars, sensors and other equipment.

He added that the optimal exploitation of ‘Rukmani, the Navy’s own communication satellite’, will give a tremendous boost and act as a force multiplier to the network-centric operations.

Answering a question on the Vikrant which the Navy wants to scrap, Admiral Dhowan said that they will follow proper procedures related to it after the Supreme Court directions in the matter.

the French Scorpene submarines will be inducted in the forces from 2016.
