
MOSCOW — Russia sees relations with China as its top priority and ties between the two countries are now at the highest level, said Russian President Vladimir Putin in an interview with the Chinese media released by the Kremlin yesterday, a day before his trip to Shanghai.

Russia is moving to bolster ties with China amid a bitter crisis in relations with the West over Ukraine, with its economy reeling from the dispute. Mr Putin is due to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping during a two-day conference on Asian security that starts today in Shanghai.

Mr Putin said yesterday that a deal on Russian natural gas exports to China is close to being signed, adding that it would allow Russia to diversify its export routes and let China meet its growing demand for energy.

“For Russia, implementing these agreements means diversifying gas supply destinations, while for our Chinese partners ... it could be a remedy for energy shortages and helps ecological security,” the official Xinhua news agency quoted Mr Putin as saying.

A deal after nearly two decades of talks would secure the world’s top energy user a key chunk of supply as demand for the cleaner burning fuel is set to surge. China is fast-tracking gas use, which is set to grow about 2.5-fold between this year and 2020, to curb use of the dominant but dirtier coal.

Russia, which sends the bulk of its gas exports to Europe, has sought to develop an alternative export link to China, but the two nations have been locked for years in difficult talks over price.

Moscow sped up work on the contract amid the Ukrainian crisis, as the United States and the European Union have slapped travel bans and asset freezes on members of Mr Putin’s entourage over Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine and threatened to impose even harsher sanctions that would target entire sectors of the Russian economy.

“In the context of the turbulent global economy, the strengthening of mutually beneficial trade and economic ties, as well as the increase of investment flows between Russia and China, are of paramount importance,” Mr Putin said.

The two countries developed what they dub a “strategic partnership” after the 1991 Soviet collapse, including close political, economic and military ties in a shared aspiration to counter US domination.

Russia has supplied sophisticated weapons to China and the neighbours have conducted joint military drills. But many in Russia have felt increasingly uneasy about their powerful neighbour, fearing that Russia’s population decline and a relative weakness of its conventional forces compared to China’s military could one day tempt Beijing to grab land.
