
Karachi: What we are witnessing in Pakistan is a meltdown of the state and society, while hawks, intriguers, instigators, bigots and obscurantists rave it up. Optimists hope that the war between khakis and the media will encourage retrospection, highlight the need for checks and balances to strengthen the vital functions of our media and intelligence agencies and initiate a process of holding to account vigilante elements within both that indulge in excesses.

This picture has become murkier. It is no longer about seeking revenge for a media group’s audacity to indulge in character assassination of the holiest of the holy. The problem has acquired partisan and commercial dimensions, which make its resolution thornier. The lesser charge is that Geo attempted to defame the director general of Inter-Services Intelligence in contravention of the law and journalistic ethics and needs to be prosecuted. But the case being built is that Geo slandered the Army/ISI at the behest of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz as part of a larger conspiracy to cut the khakis to size.

The PML(N) and Geo painted as an evil joint venture helps others: it helps Opposition parties interested in mid-term elections, not possible under the Constitution unless called by the Prime Minister; it helps competing media houses vying for the viewers and advertising revenue dominated by one group; and it also strengthens the hand of the khakis in a new power matrix where courts have begun asking probing questions in the missing persons’ cases (and have even indicted an Army Chief), and journalists have acquired the gall to question the virtue of serving generals.

And what was the gut reaction of the khakis when they found themselves under attack? Why did jihadis and bigots of all hues come out in a frenzy to profess allegiance and support for the Army and the ISI? We have been told for over a decade by the khakis themselves that the foremost threat to national security emanates from within. We have been advised in hushed tones that lessons from the failed enterprise of employing non-state actors in pursuit of national security have finally been learnt.

We have been lectured that after fighting the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan for years and losing our brave officers and soldiers in this gruesome war, there is no confusion that private militant groups that fuse intolerant religious ideology with the ability to practise violence need to be liquidated. And yet despite the sacrifices being rendered by our troops and the supposed lessons learnt from past mistakes, the assets instinctively brandished when attacked by a media house were none other than Lashkar-e-Tayyaba, Ahle Sunnat Wal Jamaat, the Sunni Ittehad Council etc.

No matter who wins the initial rounds of this no-holds-barred conflict between journos, politicos and the khakis, it will be a pyrrhic victory. No one will walk away from this mud-fest standing tall. Meanwhile the damage being inflicted on the credibility of vital institutions and legitimacy of the state itself is immeasurable. Thought leaders within the government, the Army, political parties and the media must exhibit leadership, harness their attack dogs, end this madness and focus on the existential challenge confronting Pakistan.

This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
