
TINIAN — The island wants to develop its cattle industry and make it as popular as its hot peppers.

Mayor Ramon Dela Cruz said the island’s cattle industry is very robust and ranchers will soon be producing beef not only for local consumption but for export, too.

“A lot of the local people are very aggressive in raising cattle now, and there are around 1,500 head of cattle on Tinian now. We should be able to double the number by next year,” he said.

Once they have 3,500 cattle, they are planning to construct a slaughterhouse and butcher 25 cows a month.

Dela Cruz said in the beginning, there were about 10 or 12 cattle ranchers on Tinian, but when he became mayor in Jan. 2010, he encouraged families to get into cattle ranching.

“Before, people preferred raising goats and pigs but cattle ranching is more sustainable although it requires more work and maintenance,” he said.

Tinian has 49 local ranches now, some are individually owned while others are family-owned, Dela Cruz said.

He believes that Tinian beef is very healthy because the cows here are grass-fed.

Dela Cruz said once the slaughterhouse is constructed, more expansion plans will be undertaken.

They can also produce sausages spiced with hot pepper.

Dela Cruz, moreover, is working with a Japanese friend who is willing to teach ranchers how to make use of cow hide and bone for trinkets and souvenir items such as hats, key chains, bracelets, wrist bands and other handicrafts.

“I saw what they are doing with cow hide and bones in Japan and I thought we could do that here,” he said.

Dela Cruz wants to see more business activity on Tinian to boost the income of local ranchers and create products that only the island can make.

Dela Cruz said cows have been on Tinian for generations now.

Raising cattle on Tinian now is not difficult, but the looming military exercises on island could make it a challenge.

He is also working with the military to provide assistance to ranchers who will be affected by the military buildup.

“The assistance would not necessarily be cash but equipment to relocate the ranch,” Dela Cruz said.

Another option is to relocate the Voice of America which will free up space that the military can use for training so ranchers won’t have to relocate, he added.
