
Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah's brother-in-law has broken his silence over allegations the MH370 pilot was in no fit state to fly after his wife left him.

Mr Asuad Khan also dismissed rumours that Captain Zaharie had practiced dangerous maneuvers on his home flight simulator, flatly denying claims he'd deleted the machine's data and insisting Zaharie not even used the equipment for a year because it was broken.

The 53-year-old pilot has been under intense scrutiny since flight MH370 disappeared March 8, with rumours swirling that his personal life and his political leanings had led to him taking the plane and its unwitting passengers on a suicide mission.

Mr Khan said Zaharie's wife Faisa had not left him, he had not plotted to take the aircraft down and he was not a political activist who had attended a court hearing of an opposition leader who'd been sentenced to prison.

'I don't believe it because she's at home,' he said.

'The normal procedure...whenever the husband flies the wife will go to another house where the younger son is staying. Otherwise, she will be alone in that big house. That's been practiced since they bought the house.'

There have been claims that Zaharie received a telephone call shortly before take-off from a woman who had used a false identity to purchase a SIM card.

Mr Khan dismissed suggestions that the pilot was having an illicit affair because, as a Muslim, he could marry up to four women.

Asked about a girlfriend, Mr Khan said: 'That I do not know about. Even if I know...why not? We are allowed to, as long as you take good care of your wife. Even if you ask my sister (Faisa)...she don't care.

'He can marry another one. Why not - we can marry four. We are Muslim.'

Mr Khan was asked about the flight simulator which Zaharie had set up in his Kuala Lumpur home, and which has been the subject of heavy speculation.

Experts in the US are understood to be still trying to recover data which, it has been claimed by airline officials, had been deleted.

However, Mr Khan insisted that the simulator had not even been used this year.

'I don't think so because the simulator is not working,' he said.

'That simulator was dismantled already. The things crash. It don't work so he got to reformat the drive.'

Mr Khan also denied reports that Zaharie had attended the trial of opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim in the hours before he took MH370 to the air - and had been angered by a five-year jail sentence handed down to the politician for sodomy.

'No, I asked my sister personally, even my sister herself informed him on what happened that day.'

In further revelations, the program claimed that military officers on duty at an air base on the Malaysian island of Penang had failed to act when their radar picked up an unidentified aircraft - believed to be MH370 - flying virtually over their heads.

Malaysia's Defence Minister Hishammuddin Hussein, who has become the 'face of the MH370 mystery', was being questioned why Malaysia's military did not send jets up to investigate an unidentified aircraft that had appeared on their radar.

He admitted that the country's Civil Aviation Authority had telephoned the military as early as 2am - about half an hour after contact with the Boeing 777 was lost.

It was tracked by the military in 'real time', he confirmed, but it had been dismissed as being not hostile. Instead, the program said, the plane had been allowed to 'disappear' - continuing flying  towards the Indian Ocean.

Asked why Malaysian air force jets were not sent up to check out the aircraft, Mr Hishammuddin said: 'It was commercial, it was in our air space, we were not at war with anybody.'

'If we weren't going to shoot it down, what is the point of sending it (a jet) up?'

It was suggested to him that the purpose of that would be to see where the aircraft was going.

'If I did shoot it down,' he said, 'you would be the first to say "How could you shoot down a commercial airline with 14 nationals, half of them Chinese?" I would be in a worse position, possibly.'

'Why shoot it down if it's not hostile?' the Minister was asked.

'Well, the Americans would,' he replied.

A number of aircraft experts also confirmed what has been generally believed - that someone on board the aircraft had deliberately switched off its two main communication systems.

But one expert suggested that the systems could have broken down if a fire had broken out in the electronics bay which is underneath the cockpit.

The aircraft, it was also claimed, had disappeared in a critical few seconds - a 'grey area' - between leaving Malaysian air space and entering Vietnamese air space. After someone on the flight deck signed off to Malaysia, no contact was made with the Vietnamese.

Nik Huzlan, a former chief pilot with Malaysian Airlines said: 'It should have been "Good night Malaysia, good morning Vietnam" - as quick as that. It didn't happen.'

Malaysian air traffic controllers were also criticised for logging that Boeing 777 was flying over Cambodian air space even after it had turned back to the Malaysian peninsula.

The log showed that this error was corrected to point out that the reference to Cambodia was the 'projected' direction of the plane.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
