
Supt Koo (centre) points at the recovered spare parts while Sibu CID head David (left) and ASP Tega look on.

Koo (centre), Sibu CID head Tega (left) and ASP David show the home-made guns seized from the two men suspected to have broken into swiftlet farm houses.

SIBU: Police here have arrested the suspected mastermind of a theft and robbery gang and recovered a range of spare parts for heavy machinery.

Sibu deputy police chief Supt Martin Koo believed the gang of 10 to 15 members has been active for at least two years.

He said the group was suspected to have been involved in 19 cases in Sibu alone from last year till May this year.

“Their modus operandi was targeting spots in and outside Sibu where heavy machineries were available before they struck at night,” he said.

In a robbery bearing the gang’s trademark, masked men armed with knives and shotguns tied up security guards and workers after assaulting them with iron pipes and wood. Their accomplices then dismantled parts from heavy machineries.

Koo said the men were skilled enough as they only took one to two hours to remove the parts and stuffed them into gunny sacks.

He said the parts were sent outside Sibu town to be disposed of. He said the group also carted away spare parts at unguarded premises.

“We have identified the buyers and the middle men involved,” he said.

Koo said police arrested three men aged between 29 and 35 who were believed to be buyers of the stolen properties in Bintulu.

He added that the police recovered five main pumps, six swing pumps and gears of different sizes from the trio.

On May 3 and 4, police detained seven persons including the mastermind with their ages ranging from 20 to 42. Koo said the mastermind had earlier been detained under the Emergency Ordinance and sent to Simpang Rengam detention centre.

Meanwhile, Koo urged members of the public to tip off the police on seven others still at large.

“So far, four spare part owners had identified four pumps,” he said. He advised owners to make special markings on their spare parts replete with photographs as proof to facilitate claims if the need arose.

In another raid last Wednesday, the police arrested two men and seized dangerous weapon and firearms in their car.

Koo said the suspects were believed to have broken into swiftlet farm houses in Sibu, Kanowit, Sarikei and Seratok.

“Following the arrest of the two men, police (have) solved five cases in Sibu and one in Kanowit,” he said.

He believed the suspects would lead the police to solving more cases. Koo confirmed the two suspects, aged 25 and 36, had previous records. They were detained at a house in Sg Mauh at 11.15am last Wednesday. When the police combed the house, they found a youth in a car. They also recovered four home-made air guns, a long knife, a samurai sword and five hi-fi sets believed to be stolen property in the vehicle.

The deputy police chief said the suspects could have used the gun for hunting but did not rule out the possibility of it being used for crime. He thanked the public for outsourcing information to the police, leading to the arrests.

Also present at the press conference yesterday were Sibu CID head David Ajek and ASP Tega Bilong.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
