
Register below to start posting comments, receive SMS news alerts and subscribe to our newsletter.

The ministry of foreign affairs has reacted to MaltaToday reports, stating that it had reported allegations of fraud in the issuance of travel visas from Malta’s embassy in Tripoli, to the police.

The ministry said that its officials were in Tripoli to oversee the collection and sealing of documents which will be brought to Malta. These documents, the ministry added, will be analysed in its investigations over the embassy’s practices.

“We are informed that the police is taking all action, and that they have spoken to all principal officials responsible for the issuance of visas. But the ministry has not communicated with either the police or the concerned official, on what took place in police meetings,” the ministry said in a statement.

The ministry has said it is not aware of whether any charges are to be filed against embassy officials.

The police are looking into transactions that could have generated millions of Libyan dinars for the purchase of travel visas for Libyans to Malta, in an investigation that has seen Marisa Farrugia, the consul suspected of collusion with Libyan nationals in issuing visas against payment.

The foreign ministry also said that its ministry officials have been monitoring the visa process in Tripoli, to understand the system taking place in the embassy.

The ministry said in its latest statement that since assuming office in 2013, the government had received reports of the way visas were being issued from Tripoli.

The ministry said embassy staff were working under pressure form Libyan nationals who want to leave the country due to the security situation in the former dictatorship.

The price tag for the visa was 1,500 dinars, roughly around €900. Libyans would ask for visas at travel agencies in Tripoli. The agencies would then reportedly make contact with Farrugia to arrange for the issuance of the visa.

An average of 300 visas are issued every day for Libyans to travel to Malta.

Farrugia was posted to Libya two years ago, and was entrusted with overseeing the transition of the visa application process to VFS Global – a global outsourcing and technology services specialist for diplomatic missions and governments worldwide. However, the company is not involved in the investigations which are currently underway.

The police are also investigating the profiles of hundreds of Libyans who arrived in Malta on a one-year visa.

Speaking to MaltaToday, a Libyan official said that many of the people who had left Tripoli were known for their criminal links and their past links to the Gaddafi regime.

He admitted that things changed the issue was brought to the attention of the Office of the Prime Minister.

Last week, MaltaToday revealed how Malta’s consul in Tripoli, Marisa Farrugia, had been recalled to Malta for urgent police questioning, after police took action in a request by the government over documented evidence of extensive fraud in the Maltese embassy concerning the issuing of travel visas for Libyans.

Farrugia arrived in Malta and was interrogated by senior police officers from the Criminal Investigations Department in Floriana, where she was questioned over allegations of fraud in the issue of hundreds of Maltese visas to Libyan nationals.

The investigations got underway after a number of Maltese companies claimed that their business letterheads were being falsified for recommendations and the official invitations used for the issuing of a visa for Libyan businessmen.

The investigations have been ongoing since March 2013. This is not the first time that allegations about impropriety at the Maltese embassy have been reported.

In June 2013, the Foreign Affairs Ministry had issued a statement confirming that the alleged abuse in the issuing of visas by the Maltese Consulate in Libya had been under investigation for weeks.
