
US Attorney Preet Bharara discussed the arrests in the Blackshades case. More than a half- million computers have been infected by the sophisticated malware, the authorities say.

NEW YORK — More than a half-million computers in over 100 countries have been infected by malware that lets cybercriminals remotely hijack a computer and its webcam, authorities said as charges were disclosed Monday against 97 people.

Authorities said the people, suspected of using or distributing the malicious software, called Blackshades, were arrested in 16 countries. Included was the software’s owner, a 24-year-old Swedish man.

FBI agent Leo Taddeo said people who suspect they are Blackshades victims should go to FBI.gov to learn how to check their computers.

Authorities said the Blackshades Remote Access Tool  has been sold since 2010 to several thousand users, generating sales of more than $350,000. They said that one of the program’s cocreators is cooperating and has provided extensive information.

Blackshades’ owner, Alex Yucel, arrested in Moldova in November, is facing extradition to the United States.

Michael Hogue, 23, of Maricopa, Ariz. — the program’s cocreator — pleaded guilty in New York after his June 2012 arrest and is cooperating, Bharara said.

The malware lets hackers steal personal information, intercept keystrokes, and hijack webcams to secretly record computer users.

Blackshades can also be used to encrypt and lock computer data files, forcing people to pay a ransom to regain access.

French officials said that raids last week followed the FBI’s arrest of two Blackshades developers and distribution of a list of the malware’s customers.

Law enforcement coordination agencies Europol and Eurojust said Monday that police in 13 European countries and in the United States, Canada, and Chile raided 359 properties and seized cash, firearms, drugs, and more than 1,000 data storage devices.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
