
iNVEZZ.com, Monday, May 19: Unilever (LON:ULVR) has simplified its share structure by buying up the rights left in family trusts by co-founder William Hesketh Lever.

The Anglo-Dutch consumer goods giant said in a regulatory statement today that it had bought the rights for £715 million – equivalent to £10.00 a share, a 63 percent discount to Unilever’s Friday closing price of £27.04.

As a result of the announced transaction, the company’s core earnings per share are expected to be enhanced by two percent on a full year basis as the fully diluted share count used in the calculation is reduced by 70,875,000 shares, or 2.4 percent of the combined total of Unilever Group, which comprises of London-listed Unilever Plc and Amsterdam-listed Unilever NV.

Hesketh Lever founded Lever Brothers Ltd., one of the companies which later became Unilever, in the UK in 1885. When he died in 1925, he left rights to a large number of Unilever shares in various trusts. These would have been converted at the end of 2038 into 70.9 million Unilever shares, or about 5.4 percent of the company’s share capital.

Unilever -- which owns brands ranging from Colman’s mustard, PG Tips tea and Wall’s ice-cream to Dove soap, Lynx deodorant and Tresemmé shampoo – was created in 1930 when Lever Brothers merged with the Netherlands’ Margarine Unie. To avoid punitive taxes, two controlling companies were set up with identical boards and mutual sharing of brands and technology.

Unilever CEO Jean-Marc Huët said in the group’s statement today: “I am very pleased that we have concluded this agreement with the trusts. It is good for all our shareholders. It is another step in the simplification of Unilever's capital structure, making Unilever easier to understand, and eliminating ahead of time the burden of a significant dilution of shareholders' interests."

Unilever, which last month reported a decline in quarterly sales ( Unilever share price: Currency woes weigh on Q1 sales ), has been trading in a positive territory so far today. As of 13:09 BST, the stock was changing hands at 2,739.00p – 1.28 percent up on the day, one of the biggest gains on the FTSE 100.

Of the 16 analysts projecting 12 month price targets for Unilever for The Financial Times, the median target is 2,630p, with a high estimate of 3,050p and a low estimate of 2,090p.

As of 13:17 BST, buy Unilever shares at 2,741.00p.

As of 13:17 BST, sell Unilever shares at 2,740.00p.

The information provided on this site is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to law or regulation or that would subject iNVEZZ to any regulation under, or registration requirement within, such jurisdiction or country. Products or services described herein may not be available in all jurisdictions.

Neither the information, nor any opinion contained in this site, constitutes a solicitation or offer by us to buy or to sell any investments or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or service, whether relating to buying, selling, holding investments of any description.

Use of this Website We advertise the services of others involved in financial markets. We do not provide advice concerning the suitability or value of any particular investment or investment strategy. The content of this website is provided for general information purposes only and does not constitute financial or other professional advice.

Forex, Spread Bets and CFDs are high risk and losses can exceed your investment. Binary options are speculative and you can lose some or all of your investment.

(c) 2014, Invezz. All right reserved. iNVEZZ Limited is registered in England. Company No. 8109496.

Thank you for your registration.

(in the next 7 days) by clicking the link in your verification email.

Don't have an iNVEZZ account? Sign up now!

Thank you for your registration.

(in the next 7 days) by clicking the link in your verification email.

Thank you for your registration.

(in the next 7 days) by clicking the link in your verification email.

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our website. However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time.
