
It is the CIA that hijacked the missing Malaysian flight MH370, according to a former prime minister of Malaysia. Dr Mahathir Mohamad apparently solved all the mystery involved in the disappearance of the airplane in his blog and said that that Malaysia should not be blamed for the incident.

Malaysia Airlines aircrafts taxi on the runway at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang outside Kuala Lumpur in this May 13, 2014 file photo. Shares in Malaysian Airline System Bhd logged a second day of sharp declines to hit a record low on May 19, after the carrier posted big quarterly losses due to the disappearance of flight MH370 and the prime minister was quoted as not ruling out bankruptcy as an option for the carrier.

Dr Mahathir wrote in his blog that the CIA could have hijacked the plane with the help of the advanced Boeing technology. He said that the U.S. government agency should be aware why the GPS system of the Boeing aircraft failed. The 88-year-old politician suggested that MH370 had been hijacked and thereafter it had been controlled from somewhere else. "Clearly Boeing and certain agencies have the capacity to take over uninterruptible control of commercial airliners of which MH370 B777 is one," he wrote. Mahathir further wrote, "Someone is hiding something. It is not fair that MAS and Malaysia should take the blame."

The Mirror reported that Mahathir served as the prime minister of Malaysia between 1981 and 2003. He also said that searching for the missing plane was futile as its markings had been disabled. "It is a waste of time and money to look for debris or oil slick or to listen for "pings" from the black box. This is most likely not an ordinary crash after fuel was exhausted," he wrote, "The plane is somewhere, maybe without MAS markings." Mahathir asked aviation officials to reveal how capable they had to seize control of a flight.

"MH370 is a Boeing 777 aircraft. It was built and equipped by Boeing. All the communications and GPS equipment must have been installed by Boeing. If they failed or have been disabled Boeing must know how it can be done. Surely Boeing would ensure that they cannot be easily disabled as they are vital to the safety and operation of the plane," he wrote.

An anonymous senior official from Pentagon earlier claimed that the missing flight might have crashed into the Indian Ocean. The claim cale on March 14. It was on March 24 that Malaysian PM declared that the missing flight had crashed in south Indian Ocean.

You can read the complete blog called "What goes up must come down" HERE .

Malaysia Airlines aircrafts taxi on the runway at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang outside Kuala Lumpur in this May 13, 2014 file photo. Shares in Malaysian Airline System Bhd logged a second day of sharp declines to hit a record low on May 19, after the carrier posted big quarterly losses due to the disappearance of flight MH370 and the prime minister was quoted as not ruling out bankruptcy as an option for the carrier.

We value your privacy. Your email address will not be shared.
