
That said, Islamic sanctioned sex-slavery does not perturb the Western world simply because the powers-that-be -- specifically academia, media, and government -- ignore it, and all other unsavory phenomena associated with Islam, out of existence.

The group has bombed or burned hundreds of Christian churches in the last several years, most when packed for service, including on Christmas Day and Easter Day , leaving countless worshippers dead or dismembered. In its bid to ‘cleanse’ northern Nigeria of all Christian presence -- a repeatedly stated goal -- it has threatened to  poison the food eaten by Christians and stormed areas where Christians and Muslims were intermingled, singling the Christians out before  slitting their throats .

Go to my monthly “ Muslim Persecution of Christians ” series (currently 31 in all), and see the innumerable atrocities that Boko Haram has been responsible for in the last two-and-a-half years -- many of which make the recent Nigerian girls’ abduction pale in comparison.

The real news here is that the so-called mainstream media, which generally downplays or ignores Boko Haram’s terror campaign ( see here for example ), actually reported on this particular atrocity, prompting both Western and Muslim authorities -- who are much more accustomed to, and comfortable with, pretending these sorts of things don’t exist -- to respond in awkward, hypocritical and, in a word, foolish, ways. Thus,

Back then , in May 2013, soon after Nigerian forces killed 30 Boko Haram members, Reuters reported that “U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry issued a strongly worded statement [to the Nigerian president] saying: “We are … deeply concerned by credible allegations that Nigerian security forces are committing gross human rights violations, which, in turn, only escalate the violence and fuel extremism” from Boko Haram.

Perhaps this sheds more light on why “repeated offers of U.S. assistance [regarding the kidnapped girls] were ignored” by Nigeria, “until Kerry got on the phone” (whatever that means).

As for Kerry’s predecessor, Hillary Clinton, who is now bemoaning the lot of the kidnapped girls in Nigeria -- saying it’s “abominable, it’s criminal, it’s an act of terrorism and it really merits the fullest response possible” -- when she was Secretary of State, and in a position to help offer “the fullest response possible” she repeatedly refused to designate Boko Haram as a “foreign terrorist organization”.

In short, just like the Obama administration has been a thorn in Egypt’s war with the Muslim Brotherhood , so too has it been a thorn in Nigeria’s war with Boko Haram -- despite all its current handwringing and “outrage” over this latest -- that is, known -- atrocity.

He then went into White House spokesperson mode, saying that poverty, economics, and the rest were the true motivators for Boko Haram’s savagery.

One can sympathize with Egypt’s state sheikhs -- after all, they are busy fighting their own brand of Islam misunderstanders, the Muslim Brotherhood and their fellow ideologues, who have been abducting male Coptic Christians for ransom and females for sexual abuse, slavery, and/or conversion to Islam .

Happily for these moderate clerics, few are openly challenging their assertions that Islam is clean of Boko Haram’s actions. Based on precedent, they often have no response and can become hostile.

And there you have it. From Obama administration officials who helped empower Nigeria’s Islamic terrorists, only to wring their hands and feign outrage at their behavior, to Islamic clerics who confidently dispel accusations against Islam, only to put their heads in the sand and hope no one calls them out -- here is just a small example of what officialdom would have to deal with if the full totality of crimes committed in the name of Islam were to become common knowledge.

Enter your e-mail address if you wish to receive our weekly newsletter.
