
Dallas, Texas, 05/19/2014 (ustrademedia) – General Dynamics Information Technology, General Dynamics Corporation (NYSE:GD)’s Business unit is awarded with a task by the U.S. Army Contracting Command to make, implement and maintain the ABACUS i.e. the Armed Forces Billing and Collection Utilization Solution. The new solution will help the U.S. Army Medical Command, U.S. Air Force Medical Service and U.S. Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery in better identifying, processing and collecting other health insurance. If all options are exercised, this task has a value of $63 million over a period of five years.

Under this contract, General Dynamics will deliver Software-as-a-service utilizing cloud hosting solution to produce medical claims, invoices, pharmacy claims and government billing forms- consolidating, automating and centralizing the tasks and replacing legacy systems. The company will employ ABACUS into 136 military medical facilities all over the world.

General Dynamics Corporation (NYSE:GD) has delivered 4000th Sectera®vIPer Secure Phone to the U.S. State department. The vIPer secure phones are part of the company’s cyber-defense family and are replacing outdated STE phones which are used currently. ThevIPer Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) phone updates and secures data and voice communications from Top Secret level and below for U.S. Government personnel in U.S. and abroad. The company delivered the first vIPer secure phone to the U.S. department in 2007.

General Dynamics Land Systems is awarded a contract of $163 million by the U.S Army TACOM Command to deliver newer, more durable double V hull (DVH) design by conversion of older 93 flat-bottom Stryker infantry vehicles. The expected delivery date for the Stryker DVH vehicles is March 2016.

The army entered into a partnership with General Dynamics Corporation (NYSE:GD) in 2012, to launch a stryker DVH-exchange program agreeing that Stryker flat bottom variants can be rapidly reassembled as a new more durable DVH variant, at lesser cost than making a new vehicle.
