
Samsung Electronics chief operating officer George Ferreira has let slip that the Korean consumer electronics giant will soon be opening a huge manufacturing plant in KwaZulu-Natal. By Regardt van der Berg.

The company’s Africa vice-president and chief operating officer, George Ferreira, let slip at Sentech’s Connected TV Summit in Sandton last week that the company intends opening a television manufacturing facility at the Dube TradePort near King Shaka International airport.

He said the facility would be operational within two months.

However, Samsung has since clammed up about its plans, saying it is not prepared to provide additional comment at this time. In an e-mailed statement, it says simply that it “places a heavy emphasis on future investment” and is “committed to creating a more sustainable future for the communities it operates in”.

But according to a recent news report in local newspaper The Mercury, several highly placed government sources have confirmed the proposed investment at the Dube TradePort. The paper estimates the investment to be worth in the region of R3bn to R4bn.

KwaZulu-Natal economic development MEC Michael Mabuyakhulu is tight-lipped on the deal, but The Mercury says trade & industry director-general Lionel October has said that Samsung is finalising plans for a new factory in the province.

October went on to say that Samsung’s factory would focus at first on the manufacturing of “white goods” and other appliances.

Stupid move Samsung. The trade unions in South Africa will bring your plant to its knees in no time flat, and send you running back to Korea with your tail between your legs.

Be warned. It’s happened on a massive scale in the manufacturing, automotive assembly and manufacturing, textile, mining sectors. Almost every other sector of the economy has at some point been brought to its knees by the trade unions.

As much as South Africa needs foreign investment, I advise that you look elsewhere in Africa, until government either changes its tune, or is wholly changed. Kenya is a good starting place. Formerly war-torn Rwanda is another good option.

Have to agree there, as sad as it is. Even that small thingy in the belly of Msanzi, the mountain Kingdom LS, would be a better place.

The tax and other incentives might look attractive at first sight, until the Korean production managers recognise the work ethics, labour climate and conditions in SA.

The LS economy is forecast to grow with 5.9%, while in SA the predictions in Jan 2014 were around 2-2.5%. Now with the ongoing mining strike SA will most likely end up much lower.

In LS factories are doing quite well, while in neighbouring FS the industrial estates of Botshabelo and Phuthadichaba are practically moribund. Across the border, the salaries are lower, unions far more reasonable, labour regulations less strict and only pensioners receive state grants.

Add to that the crumbling infrastructure, especially the ever more unreliable and expensive power supply in SA.

Again today almost 4 hours no power.

This is a HI-Tech plant and the local employees will only be opening and closing the entrance booms or cutting the grass outside the industrial robots change rooms.

The chances of any carbon based life forms causing mayhem ala the Platinum belt are pretty remote.

Possibly because of the fact they’re going to be producing large bulky goods, and it’s close to the busiest port in Africa?  When they do start producing smaller high-margin goods, they’re also right next to an international airport.  That plus the tax breaks (15% corporate tax instead of 28%) from the Special Economic Zone make it pretty attractive.  Not everything’s a conspiracy.

‘Not everything’s a conspiracy”………..It is when you pay taxes under an insanely corrupt and openly racist oligarchic regime like the ANC I’m sad to report.

Western Cape has an International airport.

But of course the Western Cape also has a DA provincial government. I sense a bit of conspiracy.

Of course you do.  Come to expect that from you.

So, you think that anything positive done in KZN or an ANC province is a conspiracy?  I’m not an ANC fan, but you have to be realistic – with WC having only 11% of the population, and any business outside of there seemingly counting as “conspiracy”, it’s no wonder you see a lot of conspiracy everywhere!

Cape Town is not a “special economic zone”, but I think there is one near Saldanha bay.  Which would be close to a harbour but far from the Airport.

Any WHY is the SEZ so far from the Airport?  CONSPIRACY!

This is the the very reason why Apple would never make an irrational move to SA or Africa. No compensation to any ANC government to enter the country. This country has become very non business friendly to foreign investors. Let the Chinese and Russians have it then the country will wake up!

I think Big Air is colluding to keep the little multi-billion dollar manufacturing concerns down.

We know that as a prospective advertiser, you are spoilt for choice. Our job is to demonstrate why TechCentral delivers the best return for your advertising spend.

TechCentral is South Africa’s online technology news leader. We don’t say that lightly. We believe we produce the country’s best and most insightful online tech news aimed at industry professionals and those interested in the fast-changing world of technology.

We provide news, reviews and comment, without fear or favour, that is of direct relevance to our fast-expanding audience. Proportionately, we provide the largest local audience of all technology-focused online publishers.

We do not constantly regurgitate press releases to draw in search engine traffic — we believe websites that do so are doing their readers and advertisers a disservice. Nor do we sell “editorial features”, offer advertising “press offices” or rely on online bulletin-board forums of questionable value to advertisers to bolster our traffic.

TechCentral, which is edited and written by award-winning South African journalists, cares about delivering top-quality content to draw in the business and consumer readers that are of most interest to technology advertisers.

We’d like the opportunity to demonstrate the value of directing a portion of your advertising budget to TechCentral, whether your company is in the technology field or not. Numerous opportunities exist for companies interested in reaching our audience of key decision-makers in South Africa’s dynamic information and communications technology sector. We offer packages that will deliver among the best returns on investment available in the online technology news space.
