
The off-duty Palm Beach County sheriff's deputy who shot a 48-year-old man during a late-night dispute at a community pool in West Boca gave a different account of the confrontation than the one provided by the shot man's girlfriend, according to an arrest report.

Anthony Ribeiro, who is still recovering from the March 29 shooting, was charged Friday with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. The Sheriff's Office alleges that Ribeiro threatened the deputy, Alex Alfonso, with a wine bottle.

Jeanne McKenna, identified in the report as the woman who was with Ribeiro when he was shot, didn't mention the alleged sex act that Alfonso said he saw, according to the report.

McKenna said she and Ribeiro were out for a walk around the neighborhood when they entered the Reflections of Boca Del Mar community pool area. There, they were confronted by a man smoking a cigar who told them they couldn't be at the pool.

"My boyfriend drank too much tonight and we went to walk it off," McKenna said to investigators, according to the report.

"There was a guy sitting at the pool with a cigar," she said. He said he was a deputy.

Ribeiro and McKenna demanded to see his law enforcement credentials, according to the report. When the man, identified in the report as Deputy Alfonso, said he didn't have his identification on him, Ribeiro swore and told him to "call the cops."

According to McKenna's interview with investigators, Ribeiro was standing behind her when Alfonso "jumped up from the chair and reached for something in his waist." She then heard three shots.

Ribeiro fell to the ground.

A Sheriff's Office spokeswoman said Monday that Alfonso used his service weapon, and that deputies are allowed to identify themselves as law enforcement if they aren't carrying any credentials. Asked by email what accounts for McKenna not mentioning the alleged sex act in her interview, Barbera said, "You will have to ask McKenna."

McKenna could not be reached for comment Monday despite a phone call. A lawyer for Ribeiro also couldn't be reached despite a call.

On Sunday, Ribeiro's brother, Steven Ribeiro, told the Sun Sentinel that Anthony Ribeiro remained at a rehabilitation facility and that he still has breathing issues as a result of his injuries.

According to the report, Alfonso said he was leaving the community pool area late in the evening on March 28 when he saw Ribeiro and McKenna "engaged in a sex act," according to the report. He asked them to stop because they were in public, and a discussion ensued.

Later, he was sitting on a lounge chair by himself when the came back to the pool area. Ribeiro started swearing. According to the report, "McKenna and Ribeiro were aggressively hovering over Alfonso. They were cursing and advancing closer to him."

Alfonso then "saw Ribeiro tip the bottle back and believed that Ribeiro was about to hit him with the bottle in the head," the report stated. Alfonso got up, stepped away from Ribeiro, and fired at Ribeiro several times.

Alfonso provided first-aid treatment until more deputies arrived, according to the report.

The report states that surveillance video from the pool area captured the shooting: "Deputy Alfonso stands up and Ribeiro walks toward him at which time Ribeiro falls to the ground as a result [of] the gunshots."
