
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

In this file photo, a car passes a stand of eucalyptus trees on Grizzly Peak Rd. above Claremont Canyon in the Oakland/Berkeley Hills.

(05-19) 10:02 PDT BERKELEY -- A man who died after he fell off a rock on UC Berkeley property - in the same spot where a man slipped and plunged to his death in 2012 - was identified Monday as 22-year-old Lorenzo Baltazar-Trujillo .

The latest incident was reported about 2:20 p.m. Sunday when a woman hiking in the area came across Baltazar-Trujillo's body on a trail about 100 feet below Grizzly Peak Boulevard near Signpost 15, UC Berkeley police said.

He died at the scene. His body was removed by police and firefighters on an ATV. It did not appear that he was a UC Berkeley student.

There were no signs of foul play, but police were treating the case as an unattended death and the area as a crime scene because there were no witnesses to the fall, authorities said.

University police and Alameda County coroner's officials searched the man's Honda Civic, which was parked nearby, before towing it. Police reported finding an open case of beer inside the car.

Police believe Baltazar-Trujillo fell from a graffiti-defaced rock that is popular among hikers because it provides scenic views of the bay.

In November 2012, 24-year-old Jonathan Mendiola Urbina died after he fell off the same rock while hiking with friends and relatives, police said.

"You can climb up there - obviously everybody comes up there because of the view - but on the other side, it drops off real precipitously and drops about 100 feet, so if someone was to fall off that rock, it would be a pretty traumatic injury, or death," UC Berkeley police Lt. Eric Tejada told reporters.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
