
Police are conducting an internal investigation of a Brooklyn shooting in which officers killed a man who allegedly lunged at them with a pair of scissors on Sunday, officials said.

The firearms discharge review is the third initiated by the NYPD since Friday, coming on the heels of a number of shootings involving police, two of which led to fatalities.

In Sunday's shooting, officers responding to reports of a stabbing in a Clarkson Avenue apartment, shot and killed Osbourne Broadie, 39, who allegedly came out of a bedroom and lunged at them.

The shooting occurred inside a second-floor apartment on Clarkson Avenue and involved officers from the 70th Precinct, police said. Both officers fired at the suspect, with one firing twice, according to a police spokesman.

Police said the officers had responded to the scene about 8:30 p.m. after a 911 call reporting a woman had been stabbed. The 38-year-old victim was discovered in the building lobby, a stab wound in her shoulder, police said.

After going into the second-floor apartment, police said the two officers were confronted by Broadie, who they said "lunged at them with a pair of scissors." The scissors were recovered at the scene, police said.

A law enforcement source said Broadie had a history of 13 arrests here and in Houston. Some arrests were sealed but some related to charges of drug and weapons possession, the source said.

The NYPD said Broadie was struck in both the hand and the torso and died at the scene. The stabbing victim was transported to Kings County Hospital Center, where police said she was in stable condition.

Police said the two officers were treated at Maimonides Medical Center for tinnitus.

Also Sunday, a 23-year-old man was shot and wounded by an officer after he pointed a gun at cops during a foot chase in East Harlem around 2 a.m., police said. The officers were responding to reports of a disturbance involving a man with a gun at the George Washington Houses.

That suspect, identified as Michael Schultz, of 310 E. 102nd St., East Harlem, was arrested and charged with two counts of attempted assault on a police officer with a deadly weapon, two counts of criminal weapon possession and two counts of menacing a police officer.

Both officers fired at him, police said. It was not clear whether the suspect discharged his weapon.

The suspect's .22 caliber RG revolver was recovered at the scene, police said.

Schultz was in critical but stable condition at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. The officers were treated at Mount Sinai St. Luke's hospital for ringing in their ears.

On Friday, four NYPD officers shot and killed Scott Kato, 45, of Mount Vernon, on the Upper East Side.

Kato, who officials say raised his handgun at the police, was suspected of robbing a pharmacy of drugs and cash about 30 blocks away.
