
Two Brantford men are facing multiple charges relating to a violent attack early Saturday morning.

Police say James Carpenter, 29, Justin Webber, 27, and a third man forced their way into a residence on Eagle Avenue. They assaulted the residents and killed two kittens by stomping on them.

Police were called the residence around 2:30 a.m.

On their arrival, they were confronted by an intoxicated man.

Police say the man punched a cruiser and then assaulted an officer.

While in police custody, the man kicked out the rear window of the police cruiser and later damaged a cell at the Brantford Police Station.

Webber has been charged with break and enter, assault, and two counts of killing an animal.

Carpenter has been charged with assault, assault with intent to resist arrest, break and enter, and causing a disturbance.

Police are still looking for the third man. A description of the man hasn’t been released.

People who live in the area say they’re disturbed by the news.

If you are on the scene of breaking news and capture it with your mobile device, share your pictures or video with MyNews.

Type in the characters you see in the picture below. If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.

Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.

Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.

Stay on topic and be concise.

Stimulate debate.

We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks.

We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading.

We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed.

If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.

We will not publish comments that link to outside websites.

Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts. You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
