
LAKE OSWEGO, Ore- Police in Lake Oswego are dealing with a new type of bike thief, described as much more determined and savvy than the typical kind.

"These people are frighteningly bold when it comes to picking off items they want," said Gordon Haber, the owner of Lakeside Bicycles in Lake Oswego.

He first started noticing the problem a few months ago.

"What we're seeing is what clearly looks like garages that have been pretty thoroughly cased," Haber said.

The bikes are getting stolen from garages all over town. And they aren't just any bikes, Haber says these guys only go after the good stuff.

"The criminals seem to know exactly what they are going for to a surprising degree. Fairly expensive bicycles. They actually leave things like tool boxes and other easily sold items in the garages and go right for the bikes," Haber said.

Lake Oswego Police started working the case and tracked some of the stolen bikes to a pair of Portland apartment buildings.

They say someone living there is reselling the bikes to buyers they are most likely meeting online.

Those buyers probably don't even know they're stolen.

Haber says even the best lock can't stop a determined thief, so he's telling his customers to record the serial numbers on their bike and any high-end components, to consider an insurance policy and take those bikes inside.

I'm sorry but if you bought a $4000 bike, didn't insurance and store it in a highly secure place then that is just plain ridiculous. I would have motion sensors, guard dogs, retina scanners, and chain made of unobtainium holding it down.

Thanks KATU for letting us know about this disturbing new trend, of thieves who case homes in order to steal valuable items that can be resold for lots of money.

When(if) they are caught, drag them behind some bikes through the town.

Unless you race your bike for a living, I would suggest buying a $4000 bike is ridiculous.

Profiling. Â Want to steal an expensive bike, go to Lake Oswego. Â Want to find some tax cheats, look at GOP non profits.

We have an electronic gate, internet video feed, and alarm on our Lake Oswego home; just checked the video feed...rich old people doing their morning walks...none are climbing over the concrete walls or fences.

Theives should be put to death. Â  But, they are stopping cyclists in LO, and taking that problem back to Portland where it belongs. Â  So in a way they are doing our community a service.

Let's give them a painless execution, along with genuine gratitude for their actions.

@Angry&ampConfused;! Â Thank you for your sympathies.

It won't get any easier with the new restaurants coming into the new Kruse complex.

@trololol Unfortunately a $4000 bicycle is really not that high end.Â  Not all that close to the "racing for a living" class.

Some of these high end bikes are "home" built.  Buy a frame one place, fork another, wheels separately, and the various  components from other shops mail order, er internet (I'm giving away my age...)  . It's not hard to put the pieces together and have exactly what you  want.

My bike is one such amalgamation.

@C Garcia You mean send them back to their manufacturing country of origin? Â Yep.

Portland,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
