
A reward of up to $3,000 is being offered for information in the death of the 9-year-old girl found dead Saturday afternoon.

Authorities say the case is now a homicide investigation.

Temple Terrace Police confirmed Sunday afternoon that the body found along the Pinellas side of the Courtney Campbell Causeway on Saturday was Felecia Nicole Williams.

"I just can’t believe how……they can just, throw a baby over an ocean. You know, how, I mean. She was only 9 years old," said Felecia's mother, Felecia Demerson. "If anybody knows something please come forward. Because not only do I need closure for my baby, I need closure for myself."

Police say they are working with "numerous" agencies in the scope of this investigation.

Crime Stoppers of Tampa Bay is offering the reward in return for information that leads to an arrest of the person responsible.

Temple Terrace Police Chief Kenneth Albano would not release the cause of death but said the department is looking at all possible leads.

The Pinellas County Medical Examiner conducted an autopsy on Sunday.

Wiley, who alleged she is the child's godmother, was arrested Saturday night and charged with giving false information to law enforcement during an investigation. Officials said it was five hours before Wiley reported the girl as missing. Wiley was released Sunday morning.

Wiley told police that at some point, she took a shower. When she came out, the 9-year-old was gone, according to what Wiley told police.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement issued a missing child alert for the girl.  Police won't say what Wiley lied about, but they do say it was that misinformation that kept from from issuing an Amber Alert.

"They (Wiley and her friend) are certainly being questioned about what happened, when it exactly happened," said Temple Terrace Public Information Officer Michael Dunn. "I can't say they are supsects or persons of interest or anything of that nature, because that is not something the police department has said."

Meanwhile, a police officer was going door to door Sunday afternoon at the Doral Oaks apartments, asking residents if they recognized a person in a picture he was showing them.

Temple Terrace Chief of Police Kenneth Albano said the officer was not authorized to show the photo and would not say if the person in the photo was a suspect.

He also said at this point, the department is not any closer to naming a suspect.

Anyone with information about this incident should contact the Temple Terrace Police Department at (813) 989-7110.

Video: Michael Brown's family says he was a 'gentle soul'

It's a show for kids, about weather, from our Weather Experts.

Bright House Networks | ©2014 Bay News 9. All rights reserved.
