
Islamist rebels fighting in Syria are apparently calling on Muslims in Ukraine to wage jihad on their home front and have suggested eventually taking the battle to Moscow and Poland.

In a new video posted online, Abdul Karim Krymsky, the deputy head of the Al Qaeda-linked group the Muhajireen Army, challenged Ukrainian Muslims to “start on the path of jihad” against the Russian government.

Quotes from the video, which was posted online last week, were provided by the Washington-based research organization Foundation for Defense of Democracy’s publication the Long War Journal which covers jihadi movements.

“You have to open up lands yourselves and defeat the infidels,” Krymsky said.

The Long War Journal noted that the Muhajireen Army – which has close ties with the Al Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in Syria — is comprised of hundreds of fighters from the Caucasus and Russia as well as Syrians, while its deputy commander Krymsky is himself a Crimean Tatar.

Also in March, a Ukrainian parliament member held out the threat of reprisals from radical Islamists against Russia, a threat that to now has not been carried out.

“We have Islamists, Wahhabis, Salafis, groups who have fought in Syria,” parliament member Mustafa Jemilev told Britain’s Financial Times, though he emphasized he did not endorse the potential violence.

Jemilev, himself a Crimean Tatar, said that several Tatars had approached him and stated that they would fight Russia to defend Crimea. Russia annexed the peninsula from Ukraine in March.

The predominantly Muslim Tatars make up around 12 percent of the Crimean population and largely oppose Russian control.

Russian President Vladimir Putin told Crimean Tatar leaders on Friday that their interests are tied to Russia’s.

The full report on the 23 minute video calling for jihad in Ukraine can be found at the Long War Journal at this link . The jihadi video was originally translated in part by “From Chechnya to Syria,” a website that tracks rebels who have traveled to Syria from the Caucuses and Central Asia. It was originally posted online by Akhbar Sham, a Russian language website that promotes jihad.

Spread the word!

Unfortunately, TheBlaze is not available on .

But you can help! Call at or press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

But you can help! Press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

I would like to receive news and information from TheBlaze.

Please try again later.

Give us a Scoop!

Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.
