
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (Taisha Walker, Jeff Morris) -- Charleston police are investigating at least two more mailbox bombings in the wake of recent arrests of three teenagers in connection with an incident on Louden Heights Road.

Police said the other two bombings occurred in the same area and may be related to Saturday's incident on Louden Heights Road. They said they are not ruling out, however, that there could be other individuals involved in the crimes. The two additional mailbox bombings occurred on Clark and Skyline roads.

In the Louden Heights mailbox bombing, three juveniles have been charged with criminal use of a destructive device, a felony. The homeowner captured the incident on a video camera and posted the video on YouTube before the arrests were made.

CHARLESTON, W.Va. (Jeff Morris) -- Charleston police said two more  juveniles have been arrested in connection to a mailbox bombing on Louden Heights Road.

Police said the two additional arrests on Monday morning bring the total number of suspects charged in the incident that occurred Saturday in the South Hills section of the city to three. Police made the first arrest in the case, also a juvenile, 9 p.m. Monday.

All three juveniles are charged with criminal use of a destructive device, a felony. Charleston Police Sgt. Tony Hazelett said the suspects names are not being released because they are juveniles. Hazelett said police believe the arrests made Tuesday will be the final ones made in the case.

The arrests occurred after the homeowner captured the incident on camera and posted the video on YouTube.

Charleston Police have arrested one of two teenage boys believed to be responsible for a mailbox bombing in the South Hills area.  The teenager is charged with criminal use of an explosive device.  His name is being withheld because of his age.  Police made the arrested just before 9 o'clock Monday night.  Police are continuing to look for the other teenager believed to be involved.

A homeowner captured vandals on video putting an explosive device in a mailbox in Charleston, and the incident has now been posted on YouTube.

Charleston police are asking for the public’s help in identifying the two males who drove up to the mailbox and ignited the device in the early morning hours of Saturday in the 1800 block of Louden Heights Road in the South Hills of Charleston, according to a news release from the Charleston Police Department.

Police said a Jeep with two white males inside pulled up to the mailbox, and the passenger handed the driver a lighter and he lit the device inside the mailbox.  A few moments later, there was a primary explosion that was followed by a secondary explosion that was much more significant than the first explosion.

It is unknown at this time what type of device was used. Police said the suspects were in a four-door Jeep Wrangler of unknown color.

To view the homeowner’s video of the incident click here .

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact the Charleston Police Department, Criminal Investigation Division, 304-348-6480.

A prominent cabinet manufacturer plans to add 80 full-time jobs and invest $30 million at its West Virginia facility.

In a story Aug. 22 about wild horses in eastern Kentucky, The Associated Press reported erroneously that 28 horses were found shot to death. Kentucky State Police said a detective and trooper responded to such a report but found only one deceased horse and weren't able to determine the cause of death because of decomposition.

Police say a plane has crashed shortly after takeoff at a regional airport, killing four people about 15 miles northeast of Cleveland.
