
Your Post Has Been Launched!

Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.

Danielle Shea of Quincy, Mass., was arrested Sunday.

The bomb threats, made by 22-year-old Shea, delayed the ceremony by an hour and a half, and forced the commencement to be moved to an alternative location as a security precaution.

Shea, who was a former Quinnipiac student, didn’t attend the college this year although her mother spent thousands of dollars on what she thought was going towards her daughter’s education, according to the AP report. When her relatives attended the commencement ceremony and didn’t see her name on the list of graduating students, Shea panicked, and attempted to cancel the ceremony with the bomb threats.

Hamden police said Shea was arrested on Sunday while wearing her cap and gown. She was arraigned on Monday, and her bond was set at $10,000. She gave a detailed confession in which she admitted to calling in bomb threats to keep her family from knowing she was not graduating, despite taking money from them for her education.

Shea has been charged with first degree threatening and falsely reporting an incident.

Here she is at her arraignment at the Superior Court in Meriden, Conn., on Monday.

I know, right? And there’s more where that came from.

Oops! It looks like you've already voted..

Sorry, you can only react up to three times.

Your link was successfully shared!

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.

Don't forget to share! Want to add another one? Go for it!

This cannot be undone.

BuzzFeed is currently working with select partners to help them track what’s hot on their sites using the same advanced social tracking and analytics tools used on BuzzFeed.com.

Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.

Your email has been sent!

Great! You'll get your first email soon.

Thanks for sharing.

Please try again later.
