
An Egyptian court acquitted 169 Muslim Brotherhood supporters on Monday of charges related to unrest in August 2013 following the removal of President and Muslim Brotherhood member Mohamed Morsi.

CAIRO, May 19 (UPI) -- The Bab Al-Shaereya Misdemeanor Court in Egypt acquitted 169 supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood on Monday of charges related to unrest in August 2013.

The dropped charges included illegal assembly, breaking a government-imposed curfew, disturbing the peace, and inciting violence.

In August, security forces cleared protest camps at Rabaa Al-Adaweya and Nahda Square, where demonstrators were protesting against the removal of President and Muslim Brotherhood member Mohamed Morsi .

The Muslim Brotherhood, tolerated under deposed President Hosni Mubarak , rose to prominence during the Egyptian Revolution in 2011. Muslim Brotherhood member Mohamed Morsi was elected president in 2012 and removed from power by the military in July 2013. Since then, tensions have spiked between security forces and Muslim Brotherhood supporters.

The U.S. and United Nations have criticized the Egyptian judicial system for imposing mass sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members and supporters. It is unclear what prompted Monday's acquittal.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
