
Share This Story!

PHOENIX — Three fatal head-on collisions caused by wrong-way drivers in the last week have caused Arizona law enforcement and transportation officials to hold an emergency meeting Sunday on how to deal with the problem.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Three wrong-way crashes on Arizona freeways in six days have claimed the lives of seven people.

PHOENIX — Three fatal head-on collisions caused by wrong-way drivers in the last week have caused Arizona law enforcement and transportation officials to hold an emergency meeting Sunday on how to deal with the problem.

The latest fatal collision occurred early Sunday morning when two people were killed after their car was struck by a wrong-way driver on the Santan Freeway in Gilbert, Arizona Department of Public Safety officials said.

The fatal crash is the third head-on collision caused by a wrong-way driver in six days that have claimed the lives of seven people — including an off-duty police officer.

The string of three fatal accidents in less than a week is a tragic coincidence that even law enforcement officers and investigators are struggling to deal with, Arizona Department of Public Safety spokesman Raul Garcia said.

"This past week and a half has weighed heavy with everyone involved," Garcia said.

On Sunday, a pickup truck entered the Loop 202 along the eastern stretch of the freeway, traveling west in the eastbound lanes, Garcia said.

Multiple patrol vehicles and police responded, but before the units could catch the truck, it collided head-on with a car, Garcia said, killing the two people in the car that was traveling in the correct direction. The driver of the truck suffered serious injuries, while the passenger suffered non-life-threatening injuries. Both were taken to the hospital.

There is no existing protocol that would be outside of just trying to get ahead of the vehicle.

Impairment had not been ruled out as a factor in the crash, Garcia said.

Authorities try to intercept wrong-way drivers with stop sticks or by ramming their vehicles, Officer Carrick Cook, a Department of Public Safety spokesman said.

"There is no existing protocol that would be outside of just trying to get ahead of the vehicle," he said.

Three people in a single family were killed Friday morning after their vehicle was hit by a Chrysler 300 that was driving north in the southbound lanes on Interstate 17, police said. Three passengers, including a 9-year-old child, suffered serious injuries.

Public safety department highway patrol vehicles and a helicopter scrambled to stop the wrong-way driver after callers first reported it about 4 a.m., but the officers couldn't intercept the car as it drove against traffic for more than 20 miles, authorities said. The car eventually collided with a van carrying six extended relatives from the same family.

The driver of the wrong-way car, a Phoenix man in his 60s, was also injured. Investigators have not ruled out impairment as a factor in the crash, officials said. The man will probably face reckless driving charges, authorities said. Any evidence of impairment could mean criminal manslaughter charges.

Off-duty Mesa, Ariz., police Officer Brandon Mendoza, 32, was killed in the early morning of May 12, when 42-year-old Raul Silva-Corona slammed into Mendoza's vehicle on a ramp linking U.S. 60 to Interstate 10 as he was heading to his Phoenix home after finishing a patrol shift, police said.

Silva-Corona, whose blood-alcohol content of 0.24% was more than triple the legal limit to drive, had driven more than 30 miles in the wrong direction on Valley freeways, with highway patrol officers making several attempts to track him down. Silva-Corona was killed in the crash.

Most wrong-way incidents usually take place in the late night or early morning hours, Garcia said. Staying off the roads during those hours is one way to decrease the chance of a wrong-way encounter, he said.

In 2012, the federal National Transportation Safety Board unanimously recommended that every state require convicted drunken drivers to use ignition interlock devices, which usually require drivers to blow into a tube to prove they are not intoxicated before they can start the engine. The agency was spurred by evidence that an average of 360 people a year are killed when drivers turn the wrong way into oncoming traffic on highways.
