
A man in Bristol Township, Bucks County is under arrest after a homemade bomb exploded early Monday. Police and fire responded to the residence on Midwood Lane in Levittown around 1 a.m. after reports of an explosion and fire. 30-year-old Thomas Piscione told authorities that he made bombs as a hobby and one had accidentally gone off. Bomb making materials and literature were found in the home. He has been charged with risking a catastrophe and reckless endangerment. Piscione was arraigned and remains in prison in lieu of 10% of $1-million bail.

Mayor Nutter revealed the the City's plan to replace the former corruption-laden Traffic Court. Last year, several traffic court judges and businessmen were caught in a ticket-fixing scheme. As a result, the Pennsylvania Supreme court voted to fold Traffic Court into Municipal Court. Today, authorities announced that the Philadelphia District Attorney's Office will now handle all traffic cases. A team of 4 assistant district attorneys and 10 paralegals will process 500 cases a day. This is a change from the old system where police officers often acted as prosecutor and witness in the case. Philadelphia Common Pleas Court judge Gary glazer was appointed by the PA Supreme Court to oversee this change. A budget of $800,000 will have to fit into the city's budget.

Police in eastern Pennsylvania have released the sketch of a man who they say is a suspect in an assault on a woman jogger. (see below). The attack happened at 4:30 pm on the Arts Trail along the Bushkill Creek in Easton, PA on May 13th. The 40-year-old woman was jogging on the popular trail when she was grabbed from behind, thrown to the ground, and punched. The suspect is described as a Hispanic male, around 20 years old, 5' 10” tall, with black spiky hair and wearing a red shirt with black jeans. He was carrying a black string style backpack. Police do not have a motive for the attack. If you have any information or recognize the suspect contact Easton Police Det. Snyder at 610-250-6637 or submit an anonymous tip to 610-250-6635.

Tonight,
