
Law enforcement hopes to avoid future uncertainty.

Independent oversight is necessary for accountability in police departments.

MANCHESTER • The De Soto softball team picked up right where it left off while finishing third in Class 3 last season.

Not long ago, Dr. Del Morris, the new president of the California Academy of Family Physicians, thinks he caught a glimpse of the future of Medi-Cal, the state’s health-care program for the poor. And he shuddered.

For a few days in mid-January, as the flu season peaked, so many new Medi-Cal patients “saturated’’ the emergency rooms of four Stanislaus County hospitals that ambulances often couldn’t unload their patients, Morris said. The backup prevented emergency medical technicians from responding to calls, which firefighters handled until neighboring county ambulance workers were pulled in to help.

As California grapples with 10 million Medi-Cal recipients — nearly 30 percent of the state’s population — and no foreseeable increase in the number of family physicians and specialists to treat them, health-care experts wonder who’s going to care for all those people.

“Unless we expand access . . . or change the way we practice, we will not meet the demands,’’ said Chris Perrone, a deputy director at the California Health Care Foundation.

The growing number of Medi-Cal enrollees came into sharp focus last week when Gov. Jerry Brown was forced to add $1.2 billion to next year’s budget to pay for an unexpected surge of enrollees. The reason: California is doing such a good job of getting people to sign up for coverage under the Afforable Care Act that more than 800,000 residents are expected to be added to “traditional” Medi-Cal rolls by next year.

Because they’re eligible under the old rules, the state must pay 50 percent of the cost of their coverage — unlike the 1.4 million who have so far enrolled in the expanded Medi-Cal program aimed at covering childless adults for the first time. For those recipients, the federal government will pick up all of the costs for the next three years.

Perrone and other experts say patients — both Medi-Cal recipients and others — can expect to see primary-care doctors, in particular, meet growing demand by shifting more clinical duties to nurse practitioners and physician’s assistants. Other routine patient needs, Perrone said, could be addressed with phone calls, email and video — especially in remote rural areas.

State health and finance department officials, however, insist they will be able to meet the challenge of the skyrocketing numbers of low-income patients because most will be enrolled in HMOs and other managed-care plans that require adequate network providers in their contracts with the state.

Norman Williams, a spokesman for the state Department of Health Care Services, which helps oversee the Medi-Cal program, said the department relies on a monitoring plan to ensure that appropriate access to doctors is maintained.

“We are committed to ensure that our members can get quality care when they need it and where they need it,’’ Williams said.

Health-care advocates scoff at that notion, noting that the Brown administration’s latest budget includes a 10 percent cut in the rate that doctors receive for treating Medi-Cal patients. Those rates already are among the lowest Medicaid reimbursement rates in the country.

Under the Affordable Care Act, the federal government is reimbursing primary-care doctors who accept Medi-Cal at Medicare rates, which are much higher.

But the temporary bump is scheduled to go away next year, so even family physicians like Dr. Esteban Lovato are highly concerned.

The Oakland doctor, a champion of the Medi-Cal program, said he’s now getting paid about $42 for every Medi-Cal patient he sees. But next year, when the old Medi-Cal rates are reinstated — and then slashed an additional 10 percent — his reimbursement will tumble to $21.60 per patient.

At that rate, Lovato worries, even fewer doctors are likely to accept Medi-Cal recipients.

“We’re already paid very little to take care of the poor,’’ said Lovato, 50, who grew up in East Oakland’s Jingletown neighborhood and still practices there.

To combat the problem, three bills have been introduced in the state Legislature to restore or increase Medi-Cal payments and address the shortage of primary-care doctors in the state.

Copyright 2014 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
