
He said “terrorism is alien to our culture,’’ and urged that due to the multifaceted nature of the threat caused by the Boko Haram insurgency, the sub regional institution must lead in focusing international assistance towards proffering rational solution to overcome these challenges.

Ghanaian President John Mahama who was represented by the vice president, Mr Kwesi Ammisah-Arthur condemned the insurgency, describing it as a regional threat.

He stressed that the ECOWAS Parliament had serious roles to play in ensuring regional stability, adding that any victimisation of Nigeria is a victimisation of the entire West African sub-region.

Also speaking, the speaker of the Parliament of the Economic Community of West African States, Senator Ike Ekweremadu commended the Paris Summit in France, aimed at tackling the Boko Haram insurgency.

The speaker, who also doubles as the deputy president of the Nigerian Senate, recalled that he had made two previous calls for such strategic inter-regional cooperation.

Describing terrorism as a transnational phenomenon, the speaker decried the abduction of over 200 schoolgirls in Chibok, Borno State as “the height of cowardice and depravity”.

He stressed that the Boko Haram had by “its mindless waste of human lives and property as well as the senseless abductions declared total war, not only on Nigeria, but also the West African sub-region and indeed humanity, irrespective of tribe, religion, and political persuasion”.

Senator Ekweremadu, while calling for a full implementation of the resolutions and strategies adopted at the Paris Summit, however, said he believed that “the summit in France should serve as prelude to an all-inclusive Inter-regional Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC) and the ECOWAS to build greater cooperation, strategy, and capacity to fight their common enemies”.

Sure Monsieur David Mark, we live in trying times where N2.6trn ‘subsidy’ funds will be stolen and $20bn will be brazenly taken all broad daylight and nothing and no one is sanctioned. This is the kind of country you and Badluck Ebere Jonathan are supervising.

Mark should spare us all these Shakespearean quotes and act. We all know what the problem us – CORRUPTION! You do not need a genius to tell you!

Mr Senate President do something. There in no novelty in your statement. Nigerians already knows we are in trying times.

And say  “Brazen looting of the treasury and capital flight of this magnitude  is alien to our culture,’’ and urged that due to the multifaceted nature of the threat caused by the disapperance of almost $50bilion, the sub regional institution must lead in focusing international assistance towards proffering rational solution to overcome these challenges.

Ghanaian President John Mahama who was represented by the vice president, Mr Kwesi Ammisah-Arthur should have condemned the lootocrazy and describe it  as a regional threat. Ghana and the entire region cannot absorb millions of beggars from Nigeria.

The speaker, who also doubles as the deputy president of the Nigerian Senate, should have recalled that he had made two previous calls for such strategic inter-regional cooperation on combating laundering of stolen money from the masses.

Describing lootocrazy  as a transnational phenomenon, the speaker should have decried the stolen of $49 billion  as “the height of cowardice, hopelessness and depravity”.
