
Due to China ’s increased assertive moves in disputed waters and territories, Japan will reportedly set up several military outposts on its remote islands, particularly near the Senkaku Islands . The move is aimed at establishing a quick answer to possible attacks and clashes as it aims to strengthen its defense within the region.

The nearest military outpost in the area is in Okinawa , one of the main islands of Japan. As it’s the only one with Ground Self Defense Forces , many in Japan fear that proximity is to their disadvantage should China decide to attack. The lack of an air force facility is also cause for concern, as some say that delays may be experienced when back up support is needed. While most of the previous incidents were merely small intimidation by coast guards from both sides and word wars from government officials, many anticipate a spill over of the disputes in the next few months if things do not change. To allay these concerns, the government is mulling over putting up outposts in three of the remote islands, including Amamioshima, which is 150 kilometers away from the Senkakus. The other two for consideration are Miyako Island, which is 210 kilometers southwest from the Senkakus and Ishigaki Island, found 170 kilometers south. Deputy defense minister Ryoda Takeda will be arriving in Amamioshima this week to check the island and speak with officials about a possible collaboration on research. Early last month, the Self Defense Forces also established a new radar surveillance unit on the remote Yonaguni island.

Many see the bolstering of defense by Japan as having an “aspect of strengthening the Japan-US security alliance.” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga announced that a defense program has been prepared months before but that “they have not decided on specific, concrete locations such as those reported.” China has allotted a huge amount in building up its military in the past to prepare for possible skirmishes in the Pacific as it claims sovereignty in a number of islands in Asia.

That’s provocative. This move by the Japanese simply escalates the situation. You’re getting us into war by forward momentum. We won’t have it.

I suggest that Japan simply return administration of the Senkakus to the US. In addition, the US should/will garrison US marines on the islands, thus stopping any consideration of an invasion by China, until sovereignty of these islands is adjudicated by an international body. At the very worst, if Japan is not accorded sovereignty, the Senkakus would be assigned to Taiwan, not the PRC.

Before such a scenario evolves, Japan should conduct back-door negotiations with Taiwan to the effect that Japan would not contest the ruling, as long as both countries coordinate, develop and share the undersea energy resources without militarizing the islands themselves.

How can the PRC, which considers Taiwan one of its provinces (and which bases its claims to the Senkakus on Taiwan’s claims) object to Taiwan having sovereignty? Even if Taiwan was eventually absorbed by the PRC, the guarantee of anti-militarization of the islands would still be in effect.

Let’s not forget that Japan needs locally derived energy now. The Senkakus are the answer, but they cannot be developed until sovereignty is settled. Going head to head with China is a bull-headed approach; such backward nationalism ensures that the Senkakus will not be exploited for the benefit of Japan’s economy for decades to come.

Take my word for it. Save face. Return administration of the Senkakus to the US with the proviso that sovereignty be adjudicated by international law. You may lose sovereignty, but you will gain international respect and access to all the oil and gas the Japanese economy needs to compete against China in once again becoming the second largest world economy.

The task and mission of the Japan Daily Press is to engage Asia and the World with a never-ceasing flow of news and editorials on various facets of Japan. We plan to keep our readers up-to-date on Japanese politics, economy, society, and culture with our daily news.
