
Share This Story!

Fairfax County Police are looking into child pornography charges at a local high school after dozens of nude photos of teen girls were posted online.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

MCLEAN, Va. (WUSA9) -- Fairfax County Police are looking into child pornography charges at a local high school after dozens of nude photos of teen girls were posted online.

News that a McLean sophomore posted more than 50 explicit pictures of female classmates online has irritated other students.

"It's embarrassing," said Sarah Cattoros, a McLean freshman who said that the photo scandal does not reflect the behavior of most McLean students.

According to search warrants filed in Fairfax County Circuit Court,  the 16-year-old  male worked with a 12th grade student at the school to collect and disseminate the photos through the online file sharing service Drop Box.

Police identified 24 folders containing folders of underage Mclean girls posing naked, and 28 folders with pictures of young women or girls in which their faces are not shown, however the folders were labeled with female names.

The investigation has been going on since May 13th when a McLean student, a sophomore girl, clicked on the link to the Drop Box site someone had sent her. After she saw nude photos of girls she knew, she alerted McLean's School Resource Officer.

The Safe Community Coalition is working to help families stop this kind of behavior before it beings.  Dr. Melissa Sporn, a clinical psychologist and member of the SCC, said parents need to better understand the technology their children are using.

"When it comes young people making responsible decisions, our youth and their families face a lot of challenges," an SCC spokesperson said. "Parents think that their kids won't listen or that their kids have it all under control when it comes to technology. But, this is a critical time to state your family's expectations regarding these issues and to reinforce messages of self-control, self respect and consequences."
