
Participate in Share Chat.

Cairo (dpa-AFX)- An Egyptian court Sunday sentenced 126 supporters of the deposed president Mohammed Morsi to 10 years in prison on charges of inciting violence, marking the latest mass sentencing of the Islamist leader's loyalists.

The Criminal Court also ordered each defendant pay a fine of 1,000 Egyptian pounds (143 dollars) for damaging public and private properties in the northern province of Kafr al-Sheikh in August.

The verdict can be appealed. It was not clear if all defendants are in police custody.

The case is related to the unrest that erupted in Kafr al-Sheikh in mid-August in the wake of a deadly security clampdown on pro-Morsi protest camps.

In April, another court sentenced to death 683 Morsi supporters, including head of his Muslim Brotherhood group Mohammed Badie, after convicting them of storming a police station and killing a police general in the southern province of Minya.

Morsi, Egypt's first democratically elected president, was toppled by the army in July after mass demonstrations against his one-year rule.

Hundreds of his supporters have since been killed in security crackdowns and street clashes while thousands more have been detained for allegedly inciting violence.

The Brotherhood has repeatedly dismissed the charges as politically motivated and accused the authorities of oppression.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
