
GILLETTE — A 31-year-old Gillette man accused of fatally shooting a yearling cow for its meat and then damaging a backhoe after disposing of the remains is facing additional charges of aggravated burglary and disposal of stolen property.

The Gillette News Record reported that Justin Epley had already been sentenced to six years in prison for being a felon in possession of a firearm when the cow was killed.

Prosecutors now say the guns thought to have been used in the killing, an AR-15 rifle and a .45-caliber handgun, were stolen. The weapons have not been recovered.

Authorities say Epley put the backhoe into drive and sent it into a ditch after killing the cow. The carcass and backhoe were found Sept. 4.

Investigators say Epley told a cellmate he shot the cow 54 times.

Copyright 2014 Casper Star-Tribune Online. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
