
MANILA, Philippines–In preparation for the 23rd World Economic Forum (WEF) to be held in the Philippines for the first time, the Philippine National Police (PNP) will deploy roughly 6,000 security forces for the international event.

The planned deployment is in compliance with the National Task Force (NTC) WEF the PNP created to provide security from Wednesday, May 21, until Friday, May 23, in Makati City, where the three-day forum will take place.

Chief Superintendent Reuben Theodore Sindac, PNP Public Information Chief, said in a statement that PNP chief Director General Alan Purisima has appointed Deputy Director General Leonardo Espina, PNP Deputy Chief for Operations, to head the WEF task force.

At least two heads of state and about 600 business and civil society leaders from over 30 countries are expected to attend.

President Benigno Aquino III will deliver the keynote speech on the event’s first day before an audience that includes Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung and Burmese Vice President U Nyan Tun.

Sindac said Espina will be assisted by Police Director Ricardo Marquez,  PNP Director for Operations, as Deputy NTF commander.

The task force WEF has entered its operational phase since Saturday.

The PNP PIO chief added that the NTF will work closely with agencies concerned, including the Department of Finance, Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), Presidential Security Group (PSG), Bureau of Immigration (BI), Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA), Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA), and respective Local Government Units (LGUs).

TG Manila will deploy contingents from the National Capital Region Police Office, Police Security and Protection Group (PSPG), Special Action Force (SAF), Intelligence Group (IG), Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG), Aviation Security Group (AVSEGROUP), Highway Patrol Group (HPG), Health Service (HS), and Communication and Electronics Service (CES).

TG Tourism, meanwhile, will be composed of Central Luzon and Calabarzon police forces.

Some delegates are expected to visit areas in Central Luzon and Southern Tagalog provinces.

While the NTF WEF does its job, the PNP ordered its remaining units to take precautionary measures against domestic threat groups and lawless elements that may take advantage of the event.

“We are putting our best foot forward in this international event as the country welcomes  the prospect of sharing the strides we have made in restoring integrity in our institutions and building a society that is dynamic, inclusive, and equitably progressive,” Espina said in the statement.

The WEF refers to itself as an independent international institution committed to improving the state of the world by promoting partnerships between governments and the private sector.

Its members in the Philippines include conglomerates Ayala Corp. and SM Investments, Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co., and global port giant International Container Terminal Services Inc.

The WEF 2014 will coincide with the Young Leaders’ Meeting on May 19 to 20, and the 10th ASEAN Finance Ministers Investors Seminar (AFMIS) Wednesday at the Shangri-la Hotel and Manila Peninsula Hotel in Makati City.

To subscribe to the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper in the Philippines, call +63 2 896-6000 for Metro Manila and Metro Cebu or email your subscription request here.
