
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

MUSKEGON COUNTY, MI – An inmate at a Muskegon prison already serving a lengthy sentence for a Kalamazoo crime will likely have his prison stay extended if convicted for an alleged sexual assault that occurred while he was incarcerated.

The latest incident involving inmate Daniel Ray Partee, 23, a prisoner at E arnest C. Brooks Correctional Facility on South Sheridan Road, occurred on Dec. 29, 2013. Authorities said that's when Partee allegedly grabbed the buttocks of a food service worker.

Partee has been charged with one count of criminal sexual conduct, fourth degree, and as a fourth-time habitual offender.

According to the court file, a fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct charge indicates that the defendant allegedly forced or coerced a victim into the unwanted sexual activity.

A Michigan State Police official, whose agency investigated the complaint, said it's alleged that Partee grabbed the female food services worker on the buttocks while she was working in the prison.

Partee was arraigned on Friday, May 16 for that criminal sexual conduct charge. A preliminary examination is slated for May 29.

Partee was originally serving time for an incident that occurred in Kalamazoo in December, 2008.

Investigators say Partee gave another man a gun used to shoot a teenager, who was leaving a party in the 1000 block of North Church Street in Kalamazoo on Dec. 15, 2008. The victim, then 15, spent a week in the hospital but recovered.

Partee was 18 at the time of that offense.

He was sentenced to a minimum of four years and nine months to 10 years in prison for assault with intent to do great bodily harm less than murder for that case, according to the Michigan Department of Corrections . Partee has also been convicted of a drug-related crime involving cocaine, according to the prison site.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
