
THE northbound lane of the motorway has been closed between junction five and six with one crash victim airlifted to hospital.

THREE people were seriously injured after a horror eight-vehicle smash on one of Scotland’s busiest stretches of road.

Six cars and two lorries collided in a pile-up on the M74 – near the busy Raith Interchange.

Another six people hurt at the scene were described by officers as “walking wounded”.

A Police Scotland spokeswoman said: “Three people are seriously injured in an accident involving six cars and two HGVs.

“Another six people are being treated at the scene but they might still be conveyed to hospital.

The accident happened in the northbound carriageway, near Hamilton between Junction 5 and 6, at around 4.25pm.

It’s understood that an air ambulance and an ambulance special operations team were on the scene.

The road remained closed this evening as emergency services cleared the scene.

Motorists and commuters faced lengthy delays with traffic tailing back for miles during rush hour.

The closure also affected roads in surrounding towns including Uddingston, Hamilton and Motherwell as some motorists tried to find alternative routes.

A spokesman for the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service said: “Fire-fighters are working alongside colleagues from the Scottish Ambulance Service to provide care for all those involved.

“SFRS have 3 Rescue pumps and a Heavy rescue Vehicle in attendance.

A CRASH on the M8 at Baillieston has been cleared but traffic is still moving slowly due to a build up caused by the accident and the cow further east.

THE man was involved in a collision with two vans on Wednesday afternoon and the A961 road remained closed for eight hours as police carried out their investigations.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
