
Prague, May 19 (ČTK) — The Czech senior ruling Social Democrats' (ČSSD) links to Martin Dědic, a suspicious businessman now in custody, have threatened the ČSSD's popularity in its most important stronghold of Moravia-Silesia, daily Lidové noviny (LN) writes today.

"As many as several thousands of phone conversations with a significant businessman or lobbyist a year is embarrassing. One does not even talk to his wife that frequently," ČSSD deputies' group deputy chairman Jan Chvojka told LN, alluding to the close contacts between Dědic and Miroslav Novák, the ČSSD governor of the Moravia-Silesia region.

Novák ranks among the key allies of ČSSD chairman and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, the paper writes.

The Euro weekly, which first reported on Dědic's case in April, wrote that the police investigated six orders placed between 2009 and 2012 and concerning the Ostrava public transport company and the municipal hospital.

Another seven people and four companies have been accused along with Dědic, who is suspected of accepting a 30 million Kč bribe for mediating the orders. He defends himself saying that the money was no bribe but a reward for his consulting services, the paper writes.

In early May, Euro released the police-wiretapped phone calls showing that high-ranking politicians from the ČSSD Ostrava branch had intensive contacts with Dědic, LN writes.

Governor Novák reportedly had an unbelievable 5,077 phone talks with Dědic in 16 months.

Dědic also had firm contacts with other ČSSD politicians in the region, including MEP Vojtěch Mynář, Ostrava-Poruba Mayor Lubomír Palyza and Ostrava Deputy Mayor Simona Piperková.

The police have not accused any politician for the time being, the daily writes.

"We should better shut up now," ČSSD lawmakers told one of them who proposed that the ČSSD publicly criticize its junior coalition partner ANO over the suspicions surrounding Agrotec, a company owned by ANO chairman and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš.

The ČSSD's fear and cautiousness are quite substantiated, LN writes.

Search for a word in the Macmillan Dictionaries Online simply by double-clicking on a word on the page.
