
DANIELSON — The Windham County State’s Attorney Office’s case against a former Killingly man accused of killing his wife in 2009 effectively ended Monday with the 87-year-old being transferred to a psychiatric hospital in Middletown.

Thomas Kelly was placed in the custody of the state Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services. His mental status will be evaluated at the Whiting Forensic Institute, and his case will be moved to the Middletown District Probate Court, where a judge will then determine where Kelly will spend his remaining years.

Kelly last month was determined not competent to assist with his defense or aid his lawyers in defending him against first-degree manslaughter charges. Using medical and police records, as well as information gleaned from interviews, a forensic evaluation team found Kelly had difficulty speaking, forming abstract thoughts and understanding the role of court officials.

According to state statute, the competency evaluation only determined whether Kelly was mentally fit to stand trial, not whether he was competent at the time of the crime.

Kelly’s lawyer, George Flores, argued his client should remain under the care of his daughter, who lives in Massachusetts. Windham County State’s Attorney Patricia Froehlich vigorously objected to the request.

A probate judge could order Kelly back to his daughter’s house, remand him to a psychiatric hospital or place him into a less restrictive setting, such as a group or nursing home.

When police arrived at the couple’s home on June 26, 2009, they found Jacqueline Kelly, reported to have been suffering from dementia, naked in the bathtub with three gunshot wounds to her head and face, according to an affidavit. She was pronounced dead by emergency personnel.

Thomas Kelly was found naked and bruised, passed out under the kitchen table next to a half-empty bottle of vodka, according to an affidavit. He was treated at Day Kimball Hospital in Putnam for his injuries and registered a blood alcohol level of 0.103 there, according to the affidavit.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
