
Users who have registered earlier need to Re-register! We regret for the                                                     inconvenience.

be used as your username.

Thailand’s acting prime minister was huddled with senators here Monday to find a way out of a protracted political crisis, as anti-government protestors stepped up pressure to remove him and install a new administration, media reports said.

Thailand has been stuck in political limbo following the dismissal of prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra and nine of her ministers May 7 after a court found them guilty of abuse of power. Commerce Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan replaced her but the anti-government protestors maintain he has no legal standing and want all remaining ministers to step down so a new government can be appointed to push through reforms, according to media reports.

As six months of protests reached a crescendo, Bangkok was now the scene of a tense stand-off between government supporters loyal to Yingluck and her brother, ousted former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, and opposition demonstrators drawn from Bangkok’s middle class and royalist establishment.

Thailand has not had a functioning lower house since Yingluck dissolved parliament in December. The upper house Senate, the country’s only remaining legislative body, says it could select an interim prime minister but its leader wants to consult the government first.

That has incensed protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban, who wants the caretaker government removed right away, the Bangkok Post reported.  “We will take democratic power and hand it back to the people,” Suthep told supporters in a speech late Sunday. “From Monday we will chase the remnants of the Thaksin regime out. Ministers, resign! You are stunting Thailand’s progress,” said Suthep, who has promised to surrender to the authorities May 27 if this final push does not succeed. The government and its supporters view a new general election as the best way to solve the crisis but a vote tentatively scheduled for July 20 now appears a far cry. The ruling Puea Thai Party is touted as well placed to win.

A Feb 2 election was disrupted by Suthep’s supporters and then declared void by the Constitutional Court. The protestors say they will disrupt any new vote that takes place before changes to the electoral system are pushed through.  Thaksin was ousted by the army in a 2006 coup and convicted of abuse of power in 2008. He now lives in self-imposed exile. His enemies accuse him of being a corrupt crony capitalist whose legacy has poisoned the country’s governance.

Thousands of pro-Thaksin “red shirts” have been camped out in Bangkok’s western outskirts to oppose any efforts to install an unelected prime minister.

Fuelling their anger, Monday marks the fourth anniversary of a deadly crackdown on red shirt protestors by a government in which Suthep was a deputy prime minister.

In 2010, red shirts demonstrated for weeks demanding that then prime minister Abhisit Vejjajiva call a fresh election. More than 90 people, mostly protestors, were killed in clashes with security forces across Bangkok.

Both Abhisit and Suthep face murder charges for their role in ordering the military to end the protests.

“We will safeguard the people’s power until our last breath,” said red shirt leader Jatuporn Prompan in a fiery speech to supporters Monday, asking them to “pull together” for a big rally Saturday.
