
BOSTON, May 19 (UPI) -- Mitt Romney , currently the best-known summer resident in Wolfeboro, N.H., says the police chief should quit after being caught using a racial slur to refer to President Obama .

Romney, who lost to Obama in the 2012 presidential race, told the Boston Herald that Robert Copeland should also apologize.

"The vile epithet used and confirmed by the commissioner has no place in our community," Romney said in a statement. "He should apologize and resign."

The controversy exploded after a Wolfeboro resident told a local newspaper about remarks she had overheard Copeland making in a restaurant. At a community meeting Thursday, most of the speakers demanded Copeland's resignation and some said they would organize a recall election if he does not step down.

Wolfeboro, which bills itself as "The Oldest Summer Resort in America," is a small town on Lake Winnipesaukee founded in the 18th century. Romney is one in a long list of famous summer visitors who include New Hampshire's last royal governor, TV host Jimmy Fallon and Princess Grace of Monaco.

Scott Brown , the former Republican Massachusetts senator now running in New Hampshire, also called for Copeland's departure. A spokeswoman said in an emailed statement that Brown believes Copeland's remarks were "reprehensible."

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
