
Jerome Kerviel, convicted of fraud, was held in France on crossing the border from Italy.

PARIS —A Frenchman convicted of one of history’s biggest trading frauds returned home to serve prison time after a legal saga that captured the national imagination, a pilgrimage to the pope, and a plea for presidential clemency.

Former Societe Generale trader Jerome Kerviel was shown in footage broadcast on French television crossing the border from Italy to France by foot late Sunday night.

A police official in the French border town of Menton said Kerviel was in custody in a local precinct just after a midnight deadline to begin serving his sentence. It was not immediately clear when or where he would be taken to prison.

Kerviel cost Societe Generale $6.82 billion in losses in 2008, rocking the banking world just before the financial market meltdown.

He argued that the bank had quietly welcomed his unauthorized trades when it made money, but turned against him when his trades turned sour.

French judges found Kerviel guilty. He was sentenced to three years in prison in a 2010 verdict that was upheld recently by France’s highest court.

But he gained nationwide supporters and turned himself into a crusader against a corrupt financial world.

‘‘The fight will continue regardless of what happens,’’ he told journalists while walking toward the border Sunday night.

Before the deadline to begin serving his sentence, Kerviel traveled to Italy to meet the pope and on Saturday appealed to French President Francois Hollande to intervene.

But Finance Minister Michel Sapin described Kerviel as a criminal.

‘‘The crook is caught, the crook is convicted, the crook should of course serve his sentence,’’ Sapin said Sunday on LCI television.

An internal report by Societe Generale found that managers failed to follow up on 74 different alarms about Kerviel’s activities. A few executives resigned, and Kerviel’s superiors were questioned, but none faced charges.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
