
TWO teenagers were due in court today charged with attempting to  murder a man at a block of flats.

The youngsters – a 16-year-old boy and a 17-year-old girl – are suspected of trying to kill the man in Burslem over the   weekend.

The 42-year-old victim, who has not been named, suffered puncture wounds to both shoulders at a flat within Manchester Court, off Federation Road.

He was last night 'critically ill' at the University Hospital of North   Staffordshire.

Now Staffordshire Police are searching two flats at the Manchester Court   complex.

Officers charged the teenagers yesterday afternoon ahead of their appearance  at North Staffordshire Justice Centre today.

A police spokesman said: "Two teenagers have been charged with attempted murder following a serious incident in Manchester Court on Friday night.

"Detectives launched a detailed investigation after emergency services were called to the block of flats just before midnight on Friday.

"A 42-year-old man had sustained puncture wounds to both shoulders and was taken to the University Hospital of North Staffordshire where he remains in a critical, but stable, condition.

"A 16-year-old boy has now been charged with attempted murder, aggravated burglary, criminal damage to a police cell and a racially aggravated public order offence.

"A 17-year-old female has also been charged with attempted murder, aggravated burglary and common assault."

Police also arrested a 42-year-old woman in connection with the incident. But she was later released without charge.

The police spokesman added: "Scenes of crime officers have been at the location and carrying out a detailed forensic examination of the scene.

"This includes two flats and a communal area of the block of flats.

"The detailed forensic examination of the scene still continues and is expected to be completed on Monday."

Stunned residents woke up on Saturday morning to find police cordons inside and outside the flats complex.

Thomas Monk, aged 35, of Federation Road, said: "I saw lots of police cars so I knew something serious had happened."

Anyone with information about the incident should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.
