
New Delhi:  With Narendra Modi set to hold a roadshow in the national capital today after scripting a historic win in the Lok Sabha polls, a multi-layer security cover has been put in place in the city with hundreds of policemen and NSG commandos deployed.

Policemen will be manning the security arrangements en route the road show and security personnel will  be stationed on high-rise buildings on the route to spot any suspicious activities.

Snipers have been deployed and anti-sabotage checks have been carried out on the route, which has been sanitised.

Police and NSG commandos sanitised the 11, Ashoka road BJP headquarters and a multi-layered security apparatus has been put in place around it.

“Elaborate police arrangements have been made everywhere on the route and at the place of the function where public is gathering especially at the BJP headquarters.

“We have blocked the traffic at both the sides of the road at the headquarters and the persons who are coming are being frisked and checked. We have also put in place elaborate patrolling and traffic arrangements. All the security agencies are working in coordination with the Delhi Police,” said Joint Commissioner M K Meena here.

Asked if there was any security threat to Modi, the JC said, “I can only tell you that we are ready for everything”.

Yesterday, Delhi Police had issued a traffic advisory asking commuters to avoid certain roads which fall on or around the route of Modi’s proposed roadshow from IGI Airport to the party’s headquarters.

As per the advisory, no traffic exiting from Terminal-3 from 10.00 AM onward would be allowed to go on Central Spine Road and Tunnel Road, Aerocity and all traffic would be diverted straight toward Centaur Hotel and Mahipalpur on NH-8.

From 11.00 AM, no traffic would be allowed to move on NH-8 toward Dhaula Kuan and on Sardar Patel Marg from Dhaula Kuan to 11 Murti. Public transport, commercial vehicles and general traffic would be diverted as per the position of the procession and traffic regulation requirements.

The route of the roadshow would start from IGI Airport Terminal III via Service Road, Central Spine Road, Aerocity going toward Dhaula Kuan Flyover, Sardar Patel Marg, Mother Teresa Crescent, Teen Murti Marg to Akbar Road, Moti Lal Nehru Place, Janpath, Windsor Place and reach the party headquarters at Ashoka road.

“His security detail will be the same as provided to a Prime Minister,” said a senior police official said.

“Motorists are requested to avoid the above roads and plan their journey in advance to avoid inconvenience. The public is also advised to make maximum use of public transport system, especially Delhi Metro,” Said Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Shukla had said.
