
Two Chinese men working at a controversial  Beijing-backed copper mine in  Burma have been kidnapped by activists and monks who have threatened to kill them.

Wanbao, which operates the Letpadaung mine in Monywa, northwestern  Burma, said activists were holding the two 23-year-old contractors and demanding a "total halt" to the project.

The mine has triggered fierce opposition from local villagers over alleged  land grabs and environmental damage, and raised questions over the country's reliance on investment from China - which propped up the former junta.

"Wanbao vehemently condemns this unprovoked attack on our colleagues," said the firm and called for the immediate release of the men, who were surveying a part of the mine when they were set upon by activists and two local monks on Sunday.

The statement said the activists, who claimed to be from a group called the "Student Network of Mandalay," had issued a number of demands and a death  threat.

"We strongly urge that our two colleagues be released soon," said Wanbao  official Cao Densheng.

He added the company had asked the authorities in Sagaing for help. The copper mine has been struck by several rounds of protest from campaigners and local villagers.

Wanbao said that initially three contractors, two Chinese and a 21-year-old  Burmese national, working for a firm  called Norbenco, were captured on Sunday  morning.

The kidnappers demanded the release of a fellow activist arrested by local police the same morning.

They also called for an end to fencing being erected on the land of local people who had declined to accept a government "land subsidy," the firm said.

Later the Burmese national was freed.

But in an apparent escalation, the campaigners called for the entire mine project to be halted.

They threatened to kill the captured men if people from a nearby village were  injured by police attempting to free the men.

"Wanbao cares greatly for the people of Burma and we very much hope that  this issue can be resolved peacefully as soon as possible so that our colleagues can return to their families," the firm said, adding that opposition to the mine came from "a small number of extremists and activists."
