
Local people and supporters of the Grow Heathrow campaigners have blocked the entrance to the squatted old nurseries and are awaiting the arrival of baliffs.

Silvana Lanzetta shows you how to create homemade pasta with no need for a machine. Do try this at home!

Police are searching for five men after violence erupted during the Championship play-off semi-final football game at QPR's Loftus Road stadium.

During the second half of the QPR v Wigan Championship game last Monday (May 12), stewards attempted to remove a fan from the upper tier of the South Africa Road stand.

The situation was made worse when some supporters chose to punch, push and kick the stewards.

Chief Superintendent Colin Morgan, from the Met's Specialist Crime and Operations Public Order Branch, said: "It was pure luck that no-one was badly hurt. We will deal robustly with those responsible for disorder, whether inside or outside football venues, and we will bring them to court."

Anyone who is able to identify any of the pictured men is asked to contact officers from Operation Arrowtip, the Met's football-related disorder and criminality operation, on 020 8246 0076 between 8.00am and 4pm.

Alternatively, to remain anonymous call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Advertise with getwestlondon.co.uk, Ealing Gazette, Harrow Observer, Uxbridge Gazette, Hounslow Chronicle and Fulham & Hammersmith Chronicle.

getwestlondon.co.uk and the Ealing Gazette, Harrow Observer, Uxbridge Gazette, Hounslow Chronicle and Fulham & Hammersmith Chronicle are part of Trinity Mirror Southern, offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

We reach over 385,918* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of West London and the surrounding areas.

Over 78% of our visitors**, who view an average of 1,117,727* page impressions every month, are in the desirable ABC1 socio-economic groups.

We are part of Trinity Mirror Southern, offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

Kim is editorial director for our group of newspapers and websites covering communities from Buckinghamshire to Westminster.

She has held senior roles in newspapers and radio in London, Surrey, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire and Hampshire over many years.

"I want to engage with people whenever I can. Please contact me with any comments about our newspapers and websites or to discuss any issues you think we can help with."
