
Police in Englewood say a pit bull attacked a woman's motorized scooter and killed the dachshund riding with her.

Police in Englewood say a pit bull attacked a woman's motorized scooter and killed the dachshund riding with her.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

ENGLEWOOD, Colo. - Englewood Police said a pit bull roaming free attacked and killed a dachshund riding on a woman's motorized scooter last Friday.

The attack occurred just before 9 p.m. in the 3100 block of South Broadway, according to the Englewood Police Department.

"It was his favorite thing to do," said Trujillo. "He would walk for a couple of blocks and then get tired and ride on the scooter by my legs."

While they were in the convenience store, Trujillo said the clerk was complaining that a pit bull was wandering around outside the 7-Eleven and that calls to Animal Control proved fruitless as the agency claimed no one could pick up the dog until Monday.

Trujillo said Sebastian climbed up onto the floor board of her scooter as she exited the store and that's when the pit bull raced up and pulled the dachshund off and attacked it.

"He had him by the throat and was shaking him," said Johnny Trujillo. "A bunch of us were hitting and kicking him, but we couldn't get him to stop."

Upon arrival at the scene, officers said they found the small dachshund lying dead in the parking lot and spotted the pit bull being held down by an unknown man. Officers were able to secure the pit bull in their patrol vehicle.

"I kept calling, 'Come here, my baby. Come here, Sebastian.' But he was already gone," said Eileen Trujillo. "He did not deserve to die like that."

The owner of the pit bull, a 28-year-old woman, responded and told officers her dog had escaped and it was not aggressive towards people, only other dogs.

The dog was impounded until the owner proved that the pit bull's vaccinations were up-to-date and it was then released on a 10-day bite quarantine to her home.

7NEWS has confirmed that the pit bull's owner was cited for her dog not having a tag or collar or proof of vaccination, running at large and dangerous behavior.

Cara Stan is scheduled for arraignment on June 18.

"When she showed up, I thought she was going to say she was sorry," said Eileen Trujillo, but she asked the officer 'Can I kiss my dog goodbye, and turned around and didn't look at me. Who wants to kiss a dog that's full of blood?"

The Trujillos said they are devastated over the loss of Sebastian.

"He was our baby," said Johnny Trujillo. "That dog will do this again. Once they have the taste of blood, they will do it again. He needs to be euthanized."

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
