
Participate in Share Chat.

Istanbul (Alliance News) - Turkish authorities have detained 24 people in connection with the mining disaster that killed 301 workers in Soma, western Turkey, local media reported on Sunday.

The chief engineer from the mine's operator, Soma Holding, is among those being held, but not the owner nor the operating manager, the Hurriyet daily reported.

The company is facing scathing criticism about safety deficiencies at the mine. It has denied accusations of negligence, saying it complied with the law.

Public anger, which has boiled over into large street protests in Istanbul and Soma, has also been directed at the government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan for allegedly allowing lax safety standards to persist.

The explosion and fire at the coal pit occurred Tuesday. The government, which ended its search efforts on Saturday after all the missing workers had been accounted for, said 485 miners had escaped. The entrance to the mine has been covered with a brick wall.

The controversy surrounding Erdogan's government is also having repercussions in Germany, where the premier is planning to address the Turkish population in Cologne on Saturday.

Politicians from across the German political spectrum - including Christian Democrat (CDU), Social Democrat and Green Party parliamentarians - have spoken out against the event, dismissing it as an attempt to win votes ahead of Turkey's presidential election.

Deputy head of the CDU, Julia Kloeckner, said Erdogan should cancel the event. "Internet censorship, limits on speech, corruption and a lack of empathy for the Soma victims ... Erdogan has never been as far removed from EU values as he is right now," she said.

Turkey's August 10 vote marks the first time that Turks living abroad are able to vote via absentee ballot. The largest community of Turkish people outside of their home country currently resides in Germany.

Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) has dismissed claims that the Cologne event is a bid to win voters, insisting that it merely marks the 10-year anniversary of the Union of European Turkish Democrats (UETD).

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
