
Wolfeboro Police Commissioner Robert Copeland listens last week in Wolfeboro, N.H. as town residents ask for his resignation after being overheard calling President Barack Obama the N-word at a restaurant.

WOLFEBORO, N.H. — A town police commissioner has resigned after he admitted using a racial slur to describe President Barack Obama, an official said today.

Robert Copeland, 82, resigned Sunday night from the post to which he was re-elected in March, Board of Selectmen Chair Linda Murray said, putting to rest a controversy that drew national attention and sparked impassioned debate in this resort town of 6,300 on the shore of Lake Winnipesaukee.

Copeland has not returned several calls seeking comment.

At a meeting last week, Copeland defiantly sat with his arms folded as more than 100 residents pushed for his ouster and tore into his comments, saying he didn’t speak the town or its people.

Copeland admitted using the slur, preceded by an obscenity, while he was at a restaurant in March. A resident, Jane O’Toole, overheard him and complained to town officials when she learned that Copeland was a police commissioner.

That defiance did not sit well with many in the town.

A handful of people at the meeting spoke on behalf of Copeland, saying he had a right to free speech. But the louder message came from those who wanted him out.

O’Toole said today that she was pleased he stepped down.

About 20 black people live year-round in Wolfeboro, in the scenic Lakes Region of New Hampshire, a state that’s 94 percent white and 1 percent black. None of the town police department’s 12 full-time officers is black or a member of another minority.

Town officials also said they were appalled by Copeland’s comments but said they were powerless to remove an elected official.

Jamie Murray said she wasn’t surprised to hear racist comments since her biracial son has also faced taunts.

Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse. To post comments, you must be a Facebook member. To find out more, please visit the FAQ .

Copyright 2014 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.

Copyright 2014 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.

To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
