
A man was fatally shot early Sunday near the People’s Baptist Church in Roxbury, Boston police said.

Officers, responding to reports of shots fired in the area, arrived at Tremont and Camden streets about 4:30 a.m., police said in a statement.

They found a man, who appeared to be in his 20s, suffering from gunshot wounds, the statement said.

Paramedics rushed the victim, whose identity was not  released, to Boston Medical Center, where he died, police said.

Several residents on Sunday night were upset to learn that there had been an early morning shooting and lamented the occasional outbursts of violence in the neighborhood.

“It’s just sad to hear that,” said Joeline Goode, 27,  who lives in an apartment near the scene of the shooting.

Goode said she did not hear shots on Sunday, even though she was home at the time of the shooting.

“It happens every now and then, but I never see or hear it,” she said.

Another neighbor, Eorbo Perez, who was not home at the time of the shooting, said there is occasional violence in the area, but he generally feels safe.

No further information about the shooting or the victim was available Sunday night.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
