
Time Magazine's recent cover story calls attention to the ongoing sexual assault issues at college campuses across the nation.

The story also highlights the steps the City of Missoula and the University of Montana have taken in recent years.

"The college town of Missoula, Montana saw at least 80 reported rapes over three years, earning it the name 'America's Rape Capital.’ But the nickname has it wrong. Missoula isn't special; it is fairly average."

That’s how the article by Eliza Gray starts, as it readdresses an issue that started for Missoula and UM just over two years ago.

May 1, 2012, the Department of Justice came to town to announce an investigation into the Missoula Police Department, the Missoula County Attorney's Office and the University of Montana's handling of reported sexual assault cases.

A year later in May 2013, agreements were announced between the DOJ and UM and the DOJ and the police department. An agreement has not been reached with Missoula County Attorney Fred Van Valkenburg as maintains his office should have never been investigated.

But as the article points out, that hasn't stopped Missoula from working on improvements -- everything from training, to tracking, to educating.

"So rather than focus on Missoula as an outrageous oddity, it is more productive to see it as a starting point for fixing a shameful situation," Gray writes.

And that could be the case for other communities across the nation. As the Obama administration takes a tougher approach on the tough issue. Last month the Department of Education released a list of 55 schools with possible Title IX violations, and senators from New York, Missouri and Connecticut have vowed to come up with ideas for a campus-assaults bill.

Copyright 2014 by KECI , KCFW , KTVM . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

You share in the NBC Montana.com community, so please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. Use the "Report Abuse" link if a comment violates these standards. Due to a technical change, all comments posted before Jan. 9, 2014 no longer appear on NBCMontana.com. Comments posted after Jan. 14 are not impacted.  We apologize for any inconvenience. The views expressed are not those of NBCMontana.com, NBCMontana or its affiliated companies. This is a community moderated forum. (Please note the 'Like' and 'Report' buttons.) By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
