
Nestle Ghana Limited has inaugurated its refurbished head office building in Accra to enhance its contribution to the growth of Ghana’s economy and the food processing industry.

Nestle Ghana, a subsidiary of Nestle S.A. is the world’s leading Nutrition, Health and wellness organisation began it operations in Ghana in 1957 under the name Nestle Products (GH).

Inaugurating the building, located along the N1 Highway adjacent to Royal Fiesta Hotel, Mr Edwin Nii Lante Vanderpuye, Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry said Nestle’s contribution to the growth of the economy is not limited to only manufacturing of quality food products for the health needs of Ghanaians but also direct and indirect employment as well as export revenue from sales in the sub region.

He commended Nestle for its continuous commitment to the future prosperity of the numerous prospective young men and women whose livelihoods depend on the successful operations of Nestle operations in the country.

The Deputy Minister also applauded Nestle for enhancing the prosperity of food processing businesses, that has created a market for farmers who produce cocoa, maize sorghum, which the company process into the tasty products of cocoa drinks, baby foods and other processed cereals.

The Managing Director of Nestlé Ghana, Mr Moataz El Hout said the refurbishment and the design of the building is to improve communication by using transparent glass in all the offices and to boost the morale of staff.

The building has designated room for breastfeeding employees as well as the necessary structures for persons with disabilities who might visit the premises.

Mr El Hout commended the engineers who worked on the building for ensuring zero accident over the period of refurbishment and the staff for their positive attitude exhibited during the period.

He urged the staff to put in their best for the positive progress of the company.

Nestlé Ghana Limited started business in Ghana in 1957 under the trading name of Nestlé Products (Gh) Limited with the importation of Nestlé products such as milk and chocolates. In 1968, it was incorporated as Food Specialties (Gh) Limited to manufacture and market locally well known Nestlé brands. The company became Nestlé Ghana Limited in 1987.

In 1971 the production of the Ideal Milk and Milo started at the Tema Factory. The factory now produces Carnation Milk, Chocolim, Chocomilo Cerevita, Cerelac and Nescafé 3 in 1. These products are not only produced for Ghana but also exported across West Africa.

In 2003, Nestlé Ghana Ltd invested in a new warehouse, the Central Distribution centre, located next to the factory in Tema. The company also runs sales offices with warehouses in Kumasi, Takoradi, Koforidua and Tamale.
