
His attorneys have filed a motion asking for the execution to be taped because Bucklew suffers from 'weak, malformed blood vessels'

A Missouri death row inmate scheduled to be put to death next week has filed a motion asking that his execution be videotaped because he's afraid 'it could be painful.'

Russell Bucklew, who turned 46 on Friday, is scheduled to die at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday for killing a man living with his ex-girlfriend as part of a crime spree in southeast Missouri in 1996. After the murder, Bucklew raped his ex-girlfriend and shot at a state trooper in a police chase.

'Mr. Bucklew seeks this Order so he can preserve vital evidence of the events occurring during his execution,' the motion says. 'His head, neck, throat and brain are filled with clumps of weak, malformed blood vessels that could rupture, causing coughing, choking and suffocation, or impairing the circulation of the lethal drug, causing a prolonged and excruciating execution while he struggles for air. Mr. Bucklew seeks to document these events.'

Bucklew suffers from a congenital condition that causes the damaged blood vessels and tumors. He told AP in a phone interview Friday that he often bleeds from the eyes and ears. He has constant pain in the face that requires pain medication every six hours.

In light of his condition and the botched April execution of Clayton Lockett in Oklahoma, Bucklew said he's worried about what will happen to him.

'I'm worried it could be painful,' Bucklew said. 'I'm worried about being brain-dead. I understand the family (of the victim) wants closure, but we're victimizing my family here, too.'

Bucklew's attorneys have also cited concerns about Missouri's secretive procurement of the execution drug.

Lethal injection: Former Cape Girardeau county prosecutor Morley Swingle has called Bucklew a 'homicidal Energiser bunny'

In March 1996, Bucklew tracked down his estranged girlfriend, Stephanie Pruitt, at the Cape Girardeau mobile home of Michael Sanders. Pruitt and her two young daughters were staying there with Sanders and his two young sons.

Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, in a court response on Thursday, questioned why Bucklew waited until now to raise those concerns.

'There is no good reason Bucklew could not have brought his current suit six months ago, or six years ago,' Koster wrote.

Former Cape Girardeau County  prosecutor Morley Swingle said he has no sympathy for him. He earlier referred to Bucklew as a 'homicidal Energiser bunny' when speaking to the Guardian.

'I  truly believe he's probably the most evil person I ever prosecuted  because he's such a pure sociopath,' Swingle said. 'When he had it in  his mind to hurt somebody, you just couldn't stop him.'

Swingle said concerns about the pentobarbital used in the execution 'are grasping at straws. It's a very deadly poison and when they give it to him, he'll die.'

Bucklew's execution would be the seventh in Missouri since November using pentobarbital, and there have been no apparent problems with the previous six.

It would also be the first death penalty carried out in the U.S. since April 29, when Oklahoma inmate Clayton Lockett writhed on the gurney, gritted his teeth, and moaned before dying of an apparent heart attack 43 minutes after the start of his execution.

A doctor inside the death chamber during the execution reported that Lockett's vein collapsed and some of the lethal drugs were absorbed into his tissue or leaked out.

The incident prompted renewed concern about lethal injection in an era when many states, including Oklahoma and Missouri, have changed drugs they administer and refuse to disclose the source of the execution drugs.

Oklahoma put on hold a second execution scheduled for the same night as Lockett's death, while the state investigates what happened. A Texas inmate was scheduled to be put to death this week but a federal appeals court granted a stay of execution so his attorneys can pursue appeals arguing that he is mentally impaired and ineligible for the death penalty.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
