
Vantage Point apartments at 2300 Rebsamen Park Road are seen Monday, May 19, 2014.

A 50-year-old police officer fatally shot a man who attempted to rob him late Sunday night in a parking lot, authorities said.

The officer's name has not been released. The man who was shot was identified as 21-year-old Juvon Allen.

According to a Little Rock police incident report, the officer told investigators he was loading a bike onto the back of an SUV in the Vantage Point apartments parking lot at 2300 Rebsamen Park Road about 11:30 p.m. when Allen came up behind him and placed a gun to the back of his head.

The officer turned and swung at Allen, and Allen "hit him in the mouth" before the officer pulled his "off duty weapon" and opened fire, the report said. Allen fled but turned back a short time later and fired toward the officer, hitting a parked vehicle, the report said.

Police were notified a short time later that Allen had been taken to St. Vincent Infirmary Medical Center with gunshot wounds in his upper chest, left-side middle rib area and lower rib area. He died at the hospital.

To report abuse or misuse of this area please hit the "Suggest Removal" link in the comment to alert our online managers. Read our Terms of Use policy.

You must login to make comments.

Good shooting officer. I'm glad you're ok.

jgbear says... May 19, 2014 at 11:26 a.m.

Two to the chest, one to the head.  Works every time.

Libertarian says... May 19, 2014 at 12:13 p.m.

Thug schools need a good course in being able to identify an off duty cop.

Thugs need to get a job instead of robbing.

ArkansasHawk says... May 19, 2014 at 12:22 p.m.

Good Job Officer...now we need to shoot about a dozen or so more like that!

ThinkFree says... May 19, 2014 at 1:31 p.m.

No telling how much money this officer saved Little Rock.  We all saved the expense of trials and incarceration for this perp.  My guess is that this wasn't his first crime, nor would it have been his last.

All rights reserved.

This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc.
