
A convicted rogue trader's bizarre attempt to evade justice has ended after he walked across to the French border to face jail.

After a legal saga that captured the national imagination, a pilgrimage to the Pope and a plea for presidential clemency, the former Societe Generale trader Jerome Kerviel finally handed himself in.

For weeks, Kerviel had been  marching to Paris from Rome where he met the Pope earlier this year, in  protest 'against the tyranny of financial markets'.

He had been followed  by a crowd of reporters and live television crews.

But last night he was shown in footage broadcast on French television crossing the border from Italy to France by foot.

It was not immediately clear when or where he would be taken to prison.

Kerviel cost Societe Generale 4.9 billion euros ($6.4bn; £4bn) in losses in 2008, rocking the banking world just before the financial market meltdown.

He argued that the bank had quietly welcomed his unauthorised trades when they made money, but turned against him when his trades turned sour.

French judges found Kerviel guilty  anyway. He was sentenced to three years in prison in a 2010 verdict that  was upheld recently by France's highest court.

But he gained nationwide supporters and turned himself into a crusader against a corrupt financial world.

'The fight will continue regardless of what happens,' he told journalists while walking toward the border on Sunday night.

Before the deadline to begin serving  his sentence, Kerviel traveled to Italy to meet the pope and on Saturday  appealed to French President Francois Hollande to intervene. Hollande's  office said it would consider a specific request for mercy 'according  to the usual procedure.'

But Finance Minister Michel Sapin described Kerviel on Sunday as a criminal.

'The  crook is caught, the crook is convicted, the crook should of course  serve his sentence,' Sapin said Sunday on LCI television.

An internal report by Societe Generale found that managers failed to follow up on 74 different alarms about Kerviel's activities. A few executives resigned, and Kerviel's superiors were questioned, but none faced charges.

In March, France's highest appeal court upheld his three-year jail term. But it quashed 4.9 billion euros in civil damages that judges had ordered Kerviel to pay to compensate SocGen for its losses when the bank unwound the trader's positions in the midst of the financial crisis.

Over the weekend, Kerviel appealed to French President Francois Hollande to give immunity to unnamed witnesses he said would be willing to testify in his favour. He claimed he was not guilty and that his criminal conviction was unfair.

The French president's office has only replied that if Kerviel asked for presidential grace, his request would be examined according to usual procedures. Kerviel rejected that offer, saying it would imply an admission of guilt on his part.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
