
The friend who was with Alex Mazzan when he was shot outside an Orlando hospital discussed the incident with WFTV Tuesday evening, just hours after police released surveillance video showing the suspect vehicle.

The surveillance video shows a white car suspected in the killing of 20-year-old Mazzan, who was fatally shot as he and Ronald Scott were leaving the hospital Monday night.

"He said 'I'm dying,' and I told him I loved him, and I'd take  care of his kid and everything, and take care of anything I could for him  but that's all he said," Scott told WFTV.

Mazzan was shot after he and Scott got into an argument with a group of men who drove up in the white car on Lucerne Terrace.

"The black males came up to us and told us to get on the sidewalk, get on the sidewalk, get on the sidewalk," Scott said.

Police said the men exchanged words, and the car circled back and someone opened fire, killing Mazzan.

"They pulled in front of us, and then they opened up their door. A shooter on one side shot one round and one shot two rounds," Scott said.

Scott said he ran to flag down a corrections officer who happened to be in the area. Mazzan died shortly after in the emergency room, according to police.

The 20-year-old victim leaves behind his girlfriend and 18-month-old son.

"His son will never get to know him. How is that fair?" asked girlfriend Briana Skiles.

"They went out of their way to take a brother, a father out of here for something," said Mazzan's sister, Kelli Severt.

Investigators with Orlando police said it doesn't appear the two groups of men knew each other prior to the incident.

"They were out looking for someone to shoot for probably a gang initiation or something," Scott said.

Friends and family members are hoping someone recognizes the white suspect vehicle, which police said is a newer-model Nissan.

"A senseless crime that has no reason to partake in the city," Scott said.

Mazzan's girlfriend told WFTV they still can't believe he's gone.

"He was a good father," said Skiles. "I think the hardest part is waking up and knowing I'll never seem him again."

Anyone with information about the shooting is asked to call Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
