
PINELLAS PARK — Pinellas County sheriff’s investigators say they have solved a 30-year-old sexual battery case by submitting for analysis a set of fingerprints the rapist left on a Budweiser beer can.

The investigators had tried previously to match the fingerprints with known suspects by entering them into various databases. But it wasn’t until a technician went through the exercise again last year that investigators came up with a name, sheriff’s spokeswoman Cecilia Barreda said.

The prints were matched to convicted rapist Lawrence Warren Pierce, 54, currently serving time for an unrelated rape and kidnapping in the Bledsoe County Correctional Complex in Pikeville, Tenn.

Now Pierce faces of charge of sexual battery in the March 26, 1984, rape of a 17-year-old girl in unincorporated Pinellas Park, Barreda said. He was served with an arrest warrant last week.

According to the victim, her assailant knocked on her apartment door to ask for directions to a bar, Barreda said. When she told him she couldn’t answer his question, he forced his way in, locked the door behind him and asked her out on a date, Barreda said.

The girl lifted her 2-month-old baby out of a crib, thinking the intruder would not harm her with a baby in her arms, Barreda said. She sat down on a couch, and began to give the baby a bottle of milk.

Pierce sat next to her, began fondling her and then took the baby out of her arms and put the baby back in a crib, Barreda said. He then threw the victim onto her bed, removed her clothing and sexually assaulted her, Barreda said. The teenager began to fight Pierce, kicking him and biting him,  and he left eventually.

She immediately reported the crime and, according to investigators, provided a good description of the suspect and his vehicle, and recounted in detail their conversation, Barreda said.

Forensic technicians collected several fingerprints from the scene, including one from a Budweiser “tall boy” beer can that was left at the scene by the suspect. But the case went cold as the prints didn’t match anyone detectives could identify at the time.

Through the years the prints were processed on multiple occasions with no matches found, but in November 2013, a sheriff’s latent print examiner ran the prints through an FBI database and discovered a possible match. The following month, it was confirmed they belonged to Pierce.

While talking with Pierce, detectives learned he was in Florida at the time of the rape and were able to corroborate much of what the victim had told them.
