
The police searched the headquarters of PT Jakarta International Hotels and Development (JIHD) on Monday for clues that may explain the disappearance of Artha Graha Group top official Wisnu Tjandra, 56, who is also the confidant of politically wired tycoon Tomy Winata.

Wisnu, the group’s spokesman and also director of JIHD, a company that controls the Hotel Borobudur, has reportedly been missing since May 11 with his last known location being the Sarinah area in Central Jakarta.

Jakarta Police spokesman Rikwanto said on Monday that after searching his office in South Jakarta, the police had hoped to find information as to the whereabouts of Wisnu.

“So far, the disappearance may relate to business at the office or to problems in his family. We do not know yet,” Rikwanto said.

Wisnu’s younger sister Anastasia Sintowati, 52, reported Wisnu’s disappearance to the Jakarta Police on May 13, after she received a report from a JIHD staff member that the company had lost contact with him.

Anastasia, along with other family members, began searching possible locations for Wisnu, including his residence in Ancol, North Jakarta.

According to an initial investigation by the police, Wisnu went to his office on May 11 from his home in Ancol,  driving his own Toyota Camry sedan at around 6:00 pm.

He arrived at his office at 7:00 pm and then left his car there.

At 10:00 pm he took a Silver Bird taxi heading to the Sudirman area to withdraw money from an ATM. Wisnu then went to the Mulia Hotel in Senayan, South Jakarta, to meet someone.

After finishing his business there, Wisnu proceeded to the Gambir area briefly where he received a call. He then ended his trip in the Sarinah area.

“Sarinah was Wisnu’s last stop. He was there at around 11.30 pm. There is no trace of him from then on,” Rikwanto said.

“We have visited some locations where we figured that Wisnu might be. But, we have failed to find him,” he added.

The police have questioned four witnesses; two members of Wisnu’s family, a JIHD staff member and a taxi driver.

Artha Graha Network spokesperson Rini Puspita said that the company had been cooperating with the police in their search for Wisnu by visiting places where it was suggested he might be.

“As of now, no progress has been made in our efforts to locate him,” she said.

Wisnu, the former husband of soap opera actress Peggy Melati Sukma, joined Artha Graha in 1989 after graduating from the University of Indonesia’s economic faculty.

While at the group, Wisnu has served in various prestigious positions, including deputy president director of Bank Artha Graha and commissioner of PT Danayasa Arthatama.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
