
'When I first started we really didn’t have the violence that we see  today,' Sgt. Dan Downing of the Morgan County Sheriff’s Department told Fox 59. 'The weaponry is totally different now that it was in the beginning of  my career, plus, you have a lot of people who are coming out of the  military that have the ability and knowledge to build IEDs and to defeat  law enforcement techniques.'

Roughly $4.3 billion worth of military  property has been handed over to local and state agencies since 1990,  according to the Law Enforcement Support Office.

'It saves a substantial amount of money,' Steve Harless, deputy  commissioner of the Indiana Department of Administration, told reporters. 'Last year  alone we saved approximately $14 million and this year we’re on pace to  save a little over $13 million.'

Downing explained the benefits sitting in driver's seat of a $650,000 Mine Resistant Vehicle that formally guarded soldiers under fire in Afghanistan.

Morgan County SWAT acquired the vehicle for little more than the cost of gas.

'We were actually approached when we’d stop to get fuel by people  wanting to know why we needed this…what were we going to use it for?  ‘Are you coming to take our guns away?’' Downing said.

'To come and take  away their firearms…that absolutely is not the reason why we go this  vehicle. We got this vehicle because of the need and because of  increased violence that we have been facing over the last few years. I’ll be the last person to come and take anybody’s guns.'

Downing specifically recalled one incident with a barricaded gunman that could have benefited from such equipment in 2011.

There was also in incident in 1997 in which two men wearing body armor and armed with automatic weapons tried to shoot their way out of the North Hollywood bank they'd just robbed.

'If we go to a bank robbery, let’s say, and we’re armed with our  sidearm, we’re going to be outgunned,' Franklin Police Chief Tim  O’Sullivan said. 'And so we’re trying to be proactive and not try to be  scary but we need to be as well-equipped as the bad guys sometimes,  so…if they’re going to be having an assault rifle, we better have an  assault rifle.'

Every one of O'Sullivan's officers has been issued an M-16. When those weapons are no longer usable they will go back to the military.

'You have quarterly checks and once a year you have to do the  Memorandum of Understanding and a physical check once a year and then  quarterly checks,' he said.

Legislation could be on the horizon to monitor what happens to such military gear and restrict access to even law enforcement officials.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
