
RESIDENTS OF Kade and surrounding communities in the Kwaebibirem District of the Eastern Region on Friday organized a gargantuan demonstration against their District Chief Executive, Emmanuel Aboagye Osae.

The angry demonstrators expressed their displeasure with the DCE for failing to construct their lorry station and market.

They were also displeased that he had refused to fix the bad roads in the district and its surrounding areas.

The demonstrators in red bands, wielding stones, chanting war songs and holding placards, said Mr Osae had failed to pay the contractors to complete the Kade main lorry station and the market, alleging that he had squandered the money.

In a petition to the District Chief Executive, they gave him a five-day ultimatum to see to it that the two projects are put in place, or they would chase him out of office.

The roads in the district and for that matter Eastern Region, are in a deplorable condition, making travelling on them very difficult.

The group’s Secretary, Addo Dankwa Edmond, told journalists that Mr Osae awarded a contract for the construction of the market at a cost of GH¢517,000 in 2012, but failed to pay the money for the contractor to complete the project, which has remained at a standstill since then.

He noted that the President recently stormed the area and pledged to construct the deplorable roads before 2016, adding that he had made similar promises to them on the several occasions without fulfilling them.

Some of the market women who spoke to DAILY GUIDE said the DCE had failed to construct the market for them after taxing them GH¢500 each, adding that the market got flooded whenever it rained.

They said though there was no toilet facility at the market, some residents continue to ease themselves there at night.

Some of the drivers noted that the Assembly has a grader which could be used to reshape the dilapidated roads in the District, but the DCE has said there is no money to buy new tyres to replace the faulty ones of the grader.

The demonstrators also stormed the District Assembly and took hostage of the staff, preventing them from entering or exiting.

Policemen at the scene were in despair, as the demonstrators threatened to destroy the vehicles of the assembly.

Mr Osae, who received the petition from the leader of the group, Addo Dankwa, assured the demonstrators they would meet with the Assembly and see what they could do about the construction of the market and the lorry station.

At the time of filling this report, the DCE, with other department heads was in a meeting to deliberate on how the problem could be solved.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
