
Jeff Teague is free on bond in connection with a Columbia County negligent homicide case.

Blane Acklin has been released on bond in connection with a Columbia County negligent homicide case.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 4:22 pm | Updated: 12:23 am, Thu May 22, 2014.

Two men were formally booked in Columbia County last week on charges of negligent homicide in separate vehicle accidents.

Jeffery Teague, 24, 225 Meadow View, El Dorado, and Blane Austin Acklin, 22, 220 Troy, were both released on bond following their bookings. They were drivers in wrecks that caused the death of passengers in their vehicles.

Paperwork was available at the Columbia County Circuit Clerk’s Office on the Teague case.

Teague is charged with one count of negligent homicide and one count of driving while intoxicated, first offense, in connection with the Dec. 11, 2013 death of Jacob A. Shireman, 20.

The Toyota truck Teague was driving struck a house on a flatbed trailer next to the Southern Arkansas University track about 11:15 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 11.

Shireman lived on the SAU campus and was a freshman pre-nursing student from Mayflower.

According to preliminary Arkansas State Police and other reports, Teague, a junior accounting major at SAU, was driving north on Jackson when he failed to negotiate the left-hand curve in front of Wilkins Stadium.

The truck jumped the curb, traveled through a parking lot and hit the right rear of the house that sat on the trailer.

Earlier Wednesday, the house -- which had been located on university property across East University from the Arkansas Department of Human Services office -- was moved. SAU police escorted the house on a trailer operated by Keith Smith House Movers along North Jackson to the parking lot at the SAU track.

The trailer and house were parked at the track because the house could not be moved at night.

Negligent homicide is a Class B felony punishable by imprisonment in the Arkansas Department of Correction for a term not less than five years nor more than 20 years, and/or a fine not to exceed $15,000.

Driving while intoxicated is a Class U misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in the Columbia County Justice and Detention Facility for a term of no less than 24 hours and no more than one year, and or a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $1,000.

Blane Austin Acklin is charged with negligent homicide for the Wednesday, April 2 death of Austin Blake Glass, 19, 2487 Columbia Road 3.

The wreck on County Road 53 near Lake Columbia also injured Acklin and three other passengers.

According to an Arkansas State Police report, Glass was a passenger of a 1999 model Ford pick-up truck driven by Acklin.

The state police report said that Acklin failed to negotiate a curve. The truck exited the roadway and struck a tree.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
