
Benghazi, the IRS and Fast and Furious. How many times have we heard stories about these events over the last couple of years? Too many to count.

Do you have an opinion on what happened? Most Americans do and depending on your political affiliation, it is either a witch hunt by the Republicans or a cover-up by the Democrats.

If the Republicans are just looking for something to make the Democrats look bad, in hopes of political gain, then they are truly in the wrong. If the Democrats are trying to cover something up, in order to prevent a loss of political strength, they are equally as wrong.

Instead of going around and making accusations that the Republican Party is doing everything it can to make the president and Hillary Clinton look bad, start demanding that the Congressional committees get all the un-redacted documents.

The best way to stop accusations is to provide proof they are wrong.

We have had an American ambassador, two former Navy Seals and a computer specialist killed in Benghazi, and a border patrol officer was killed right here in the United States.

Democrats, prove the Republicans are wrong and you will stop the investigations and settle all doubts. If Republicans prove to be right, the Democratic Party will look mighty bad.

The sad part of all of this. No matter who is right or wrong, America will take a huge hit in creditability.

I hate to think that our two major political parties have become so uncaring about what is right or wrong that they will continue to argue and bicker, like immature kids, instead of working together to solve our nations problems. If that means bringing political allies to justice, that means they were part of our problems.

My opinion, for what it is worth, is that politics should not be a part of any of the ongoing investigations into any of these events.

Posted in Opinion on Monday, May 19, 2014 3:16 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
