
According to investigations conducted by the Palestinian Centre for Human Rights (PCHR) and eyewitnesses' accounts, on Thursday morning, 15 May 2014, dozens of Palestinian civilians and students from Ramallah and al-Bireh gathered in the vicinity of Ofer Prison, west of Ramallah, to organize a demonstration commemorating the 66th anniversary of Nakba.  The demonstrators headed towards the prison's gate, so Israeli forces closed it and large numbers of them were deployed in the vicinity of the prison.  The demonstrators set fire to rubber tires and threw stones and empty bottles at the Israeli soldiers who immediately fired live ammunition, rubber-coated metal bullets, tear gas canisters and sound bombs at them.  As a result, two children were killed and 8 civilians, including a child, were wounded.  Of those wounded was Mohammed ‘Abdullah ‘Azzah (14) who sustained a serious bullet wound to the back.

1. Nadim Ahmed Nowarah (17), a student at the Evangelical School in Ramallah, from South Mazra’a village, northwest of Ramallah, hit by a bullet to the chest; he was transferred by the medical crews to Palestine Governmental Medical Complex in the city, where he underwent a surgery, but doctors’ efforts failed to save his life.

PCHR calls upon the international community to take immediate and effective action to stop Israeli crimes and reiterates its call for the High Contracting Parties to the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention to fulfill their obligations under Article 1; i.e., to respect and to ensure respect for the Convention in all circumstances, and their obligation under Article 146 to prosecute persons alleged to commit grave breaches of the Fourth Geneva Convention.  These grave breaches constitute war crimes under Article 147 of the same Convention and Protocol (I) Additional to the Geneva Conventions.

Your are currently browsing this site with Internet Explorer 6 (IE6).

Your current web browser must be updated to version 7 of Internet Explorer (IE7) to take advantage of all of template's capabilities.

Why should I upgrade to Internet Explorer 7? Microsoft has redesigned Internet Explorer from the ground up, with better security, new capabilities, and a whole new interface. Many changes resulted from the feedback of millions of users who tested prerelease versions of the new browser.  The most compelling reason to upgrade is the improved security. The Internet of today is not the Internet of five years ago. There are dangers that simply didn't exist back in 2001, when Internet Explorer 6 was released to the world. Internet Explorer 7 makes surfing the web fundamentally safer by offering greater protection against viruses, spyware, and other online risks.
