
The FBI described its investigation in criminal complaints unsealed in Manhattan federal court against five individuals.

Meanwhile, police worldwide said they had recently arrested 97 people in 16 countries suspected of using or distributing the malicious software called BlackShades.

At a news conference today in Manhattan, FBI agents and the US attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara said authorities had arrested one of Blackshades co-creators, Alex Yucel, in Moldova.

He is currently awaiting extradition to the United States.

Also arrested was Brendan Johnston of Thouands Oaks, California, who allegedly sold Blackshades RAT programming - which allowed them to hack webcams - and provided technical support to others between August 2011 and September 2012.

Yucel, 24, is a Swedish citizen and faces charges that carry sentences of up to 15-years in prison according to the LA Times.

Johnston, 23, is looking at a prison term of 10 years for his two counts of computer hacking.

Fedorek, 26, and Rappa, 41, are also staring at a decade each in prison for the charges against them.

Hogue, 23, has pleaded not guilty to computer hacking and cooperated with prosecutors in a plea deal - his sentence is yet to be announced.

Bharara described the technology as 'inexpensive and simple to use,' but called its invasiveness 'breathtaking.'

'As today's case makes clear, we now live in a world where, for just $40, a cybercriminal halfway across the globe can – with just a click of a mouse – unleash a RAT that can spread a computer plague not only on someone's property, but also on their privacy and most personal spaces,' said Bharara.

'You can't just hide in another country anymore,' Bharara said. 'We will get as many people as we can.'

The FBI said the BlackShades Remote Access Tool has been sold since at least 2010 to several thousand users.

'This case is a strong reminder that no one is safe while using the Internet,' said Koen Hermans, an official representing the Netherlands in the European Union's criminal investigation coordination unit, Eurojust.

'It should serve as a warning and deterrent to those involved in the manufacture and use of this software.'

The agency said one of the program's co-creators is now cooperating with the government and had provided extensive information.

The malware lets hackers steal personal information, intercept keystrokes and hijack webcams to make secret recordings of users.

BlackShades also can be used to encrypt and lock a computer's data files, blocking the rightful owners from regaining access unless they pay a ransom.

Security experts have linked the program to attacks on Syrian dissidents in 2012 and attempts to steal data from more than a dozen French organizations last year.

The low cost of the hacking tool has made it increasingly popular across the hacker underground, where variants have been circulating online for years.

Last year, security firm Symantec said that use of BlackShades was going up, with licenses for the program going for $40 to $100.

French officials said raids occurred last week after the FBI arrested two BlackShades developers and distributed a list of customers who had purchased the malware.

Law enforcement coordination agencies Europol and Eurojust, based in The Hague, Netherlands, said Monday that police in 13 European countries — Austria, Belgium, Britain, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Moldova, the Netherlands and Switzerland — as well as in the United States, Canada and Chile raided 359 properties and seized cash, firearms, drugs and more than 1,000 data storage devices.

The two European agencies declined to provide country-by-country breakdowns of arrests, details of items seized or the specific days when last week's raids occurred.

In Paris, the state prosecutor's office said French detectives arrested more than two dozen people during May 13 raids and described the global nature of the arrests and searches as an unprecedented 'new form of judicial action.'

It said those arrested were identified by the FBI as French 'citizens who had acquired or used this software.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
