
A Mississippi man who sent letters dusted with the poison ricin to President Barack Obama and other officials has been sentenced to spend 25 years in prison.

James Everett Dutschke was sentenced Monday after telling the judge that he had changed his mind about wanting to withdraw his guilty plea in the case.

In addition to 25 years in jail, Duetschke was also sentenced to five years of supervised release and remains in federal custody.

Dutschke waived his right to appeal. He wasn't fined or ordered to pay restitution because he doesn't have enough money, federal prosecutor Chad Lamar said.

‘She found our agreement to be a fair sentence and one that represented the severity of the crime committed,’ Lamar said after the hearing.

The 42-year-old Tupelo man complicated matters on May 13 when he told Judge Aycock that he wanted to withdraw the plea agreement he made with federal prosecutors in January.

In a half-hour speech, the former martial arts instructor told the judge that federal prosecutors lied when they said he made the poison and about finding his DNA on a dust mask.

He renewed accusations that Elvis impersonator and entertainer Curtis had committed the crimes.

Curtis was initially arrested by federal prosecutors but was abruptly released after officials found no physical evidence of ricin in his home.

Although he pointed the finger at Curtis, Dutschke also argued last week that had only used castor beans to make a fertilizer that couldn't hurt anyone, not a true form of the poison ricin.

At the end of the May 13 hearing, Judge Aycock had told Dutschke to file a formal motion asking to withdraw his plea.

A decision on that motion would have been up to the judge, but Dutschke had a change of heart and on Friday, defense attorney Ken Coghlan sent a letter to Aycock saying his client would stick with the guilty plea.

Pulling back the plea could have opened Dutschke to a possible life sentence as well as a longer sentence in a state court proceeding where he had pleaded guilty to fondling charges.

State prosecutors have recommended that Dutschke serve his proposed 20-year sentence in the unrelated fondling case at the same time he serves any penalty on the federal charges.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
