
A deputy head teacher from Cardiff who secretly filmed pupils going to the toilet has been jailed for five years.

Gareth Williams, 47, earlier admitted 31 charges including nine of voyeurism and 20 of making indecent photos.

He was caught following a global operation targeting users of a child abuse website and police found 691 videos of a voyeuristic nature.

His wife Georgina said after the hearing she was sickened by his actions.

Cardiff Crown Court heard Williams installed cameras in two private homes and in the changing room toilets at Ysgol Glantaf where he worked.

He concealed a camera on the water cistern at the school capturing images of 31 children aged between 11 and 16.

Williams was investigated by police after computer specialists found he had been buying child abuse images on the internet.

His home was raided and officers discovered two laptops and 11 memory sticks along with pinhole camera equipment.

The court heard he had 16,419 indecent images of children and 691 videos.

During police interview Williams admitted he had an "enduring interest in boys development" but said he couldn't explain why.

He admitted it became an obsession.

'Shocking revelations'

Sentencing him to five years in prison, Judge Rhys Rowlands said Williams' crimes showed a "dreadful and protracted breach of trust on your behalf".

"As a result of your depraved behaviour you have lost your career, livelihood and reputation," he added.

"But this is nothing compared to the worry and real horror which is felt by parents who have trusted their children to you."

After the hearing William's wife Georgina said: "I feel physically sick at what he has done. I was shell-shocked and my whole world came crashing down."

Det Chf Insp Tony Brown said after the sentencing he hoped the court outcome would allow all families concerned, and the school, to put the "distressing episode" behind them.

Catrin Davies, district crown prosecutor for the Crown Prosecution Service Wales, said Williams had acted purely for his own gratification, with no regard for the welfare or innocence of his young victims.

"As a deputy head teacher, he could have been in no doubt that his actions were wrong," she said.

A joint statement on behalf of school and Cardiff council said: "The school community has been dismayed by the shocking revelations made in court today.

"Prior to the arrest of Mr Gareth Williams there was not and never had been any indication of any wrongdoing on his part."
