
The resignation by the officer, Frank Semmel, took effect April 1, officials said, and comes as Paterson’s lawyers have reached a tentative settlement of a federal lawsuit filed by the recreation therapist who was allegedly beaten by Semmel.

The terms of the settlement have not been made public yet, but the City Council is scheduled to discuss the agreement in closed session tomorrow night.

“I don’t want to say anything until the settlement gets approved,” said Frederick Gerson, the lawyer for the therapist, Daimon Morgan.

The city’s acting law director, Domenick Stampone, also declined to comment on the case.

Court documents indicate Morgan may be getting a significant amount of money. The city is seeking to make the payments in installments, instead of in one lump sum.

Charges of official misconduct and aggravated assault are still pending against Semmel. That trial originally had been scheduled to start in March but was postponed. Semmel, who was born in 1975, had been working as a Paterson police officer since 1997. His salary was more than $90,000, records show.

In announcing the indictment in 2011, the Passaic County Prosecutor’s office has said that Semmel was looking for two juveniles who had assaulted his son in Hawthorne in November 2010, when he came upon Morgan, a life skills specialist for a Hawthorne-based rehabilitation center, with a patient suffering a brain-injury. Semmel apparently believed they were the ones who beat his son because they matched the general description of the suspects – a while male and a black male, according to the prosecutor’s office, according to authorities.

Semmel ordered Morgan and his patient to the ground, jumped on top of the therapist and repeatedly punched him in the face, the press release on the indictment said. Morgan eventually was knocked out and suffered a fractured nose, the prosecutor’s office said.

Hawthorne police later arrested two juveniles in connection with the assault on Semmel’s son, according to the prosecutor’s office.

Officials at the prosecutor’s office did not respond to messages seeking an update on the status of the criminal case against Semmel.

Paterson Police Director Glenn Brown confirmed that the officer resigned effective April 1. Brown said he believed the resignation was related to the lawsuit and not the criminal charges. Brown said Semmel was suspended for 30 days and then returned to work after that.

Brown said Semmel continued to work until his resignation last month.
