
A man sexually molested as a child by a teacher at an exclusive Perth school says he wants to know why it fell to him to go to police when the school knew the man's behaviour stretched back years.

The Royal Commission into Institutional responses to Child Sexual Abuse has also heard the school, which cannot be named for legal reasons, was more concerned with protecting its reputation than supporting the victims of the teacher known as YJ.

The commission is this week hearing evidence about how the school responded to decade-old complaints against the teacher, who was eventually convicted of sex offences in 2009.

"Why did it have to take me being abused before something was done," the witness, known as WP, said on Monday.

"With the information I have since discovered, I can't believe YJ was still teaching in the school the morning I disclosed the abuse to my parents and police."

Despite numerous warnings from fellow teachers and a parent between 1999 and 2005, the school's headmaster at the time concluded there was no basis to dismiss YJ, the commission heard on Monday.

WP told the commission he did not feel supported by the school.

"I began to feel isolated, like a troublemaker for the school's reputation that was best kept quiet," he said.

He thought the school did believe him "but the focus was on the school's reputation."

WP, who was 10 when he started at the school.

He said YJ would abuse him during question and answer sessions in a packed class room.

The teacher picked him as a favourite, which led to other students bullying him.

It would then fall to YJ to come to his aid, WP said. "I felt he was taking advantage of my vulnerability and increasing my social isolation," WP said.

He told the commission the abuse has left him with numerous emotional and psychological difficulties.

Pausing to fight back tears, WP said he says he still hears YJ's words when he uses the bathroom.

"I have deep issues and fears with becoming sexually involved with women and I think I always will," he said.

"I have constant feelings of guilt about what happened to me and that it was my own fault. I often think that I must have done something wrong to deserve what happened to me."

The commission will hear that YJ was given a formal warning in 2004 but was allowed to continue working until 2009, when the former student reported him to police.

The hearing is continuing.
