
A car driven by a Wyoming man rammed head-on into a tanker truck Sunday at Bailey Yard. The crash occurred just behind the Log Cabin Cafe on the northwest side of the railyard.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 2:11 pm | Updated: 4:33 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

A man from Wyoming was airlifted to a Kearney hospital following a collision at Bailey Yard on Sunday.

The incident was reported to the Lincoln County Sheriff’s Office at 2:04 a.m., according to Roland Kramer, chief deputy.

Deputies drove to the northwest end of the railyard where they made contact with Kerry Hoffard, 58, of Pine Haven, Wyo. and Jeffery Howard, 54, of North Platte.

Howard had allegedly been driving east in a white 2006 Columbia Freightliner 112 tanker truck. He was traveling on a narrow oil road when he noticed a tan 2002 Buick LeSabre, driven by Hoffard, headed toward him. Howard pulled his tanker completely over to the south side of the road and stopped to avoid a collision. Kramer said Hoffard did not move over and struck the tanker head-on.

Howard was not injured in the collision, according to Kramer. Hoffard, however, sustained serious head injuries.

The North Platte Fire and Rescue Department transported Hoffard via ambulance to Great Plains Regional Medical Center. From there, he was flown by Midwest Med Air to Good Samaritan Hospital in Kearney.

Kramer said an investigation showed Hoffard had been drinking prior to the crash. He also had not been wearing a seat belt at the time of the collision.

Howard had been wearing a seat belt.

Kramer said because Hoffard was not an employee of Union Pacific Railroad, he will be cited for trespassing on railroad property, and other charges may be added.

Posted in Breaking news on Monday, May 19, 2014 2:11 pm. Updated: 4:33 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
