
May 19, 2014, 1:08 p.m.

A PRISONER’S attempt to laydown his own parole conditions before a courtroom of people has failed.

A PRISONER’S attempt to laydown his own parole conditions before a courtroom of people has failed.

Police prosecutor Sergeant Chris Toole on Wednesday suggested Joshua Rudd save his breath as release from prison would constitute a breaking of the law.

Rudd is being held in Goulburn Jail on charges of possessing restricted substances, forging prescriptions and theft.

He pleaded guilty to all of the charges while appearing via audio visual link this week so as to “save the court’s time”.

Instead of saving the court’s time, he indivertibly wasted it.

Rather than waiting to hear of his sentencing date, Rudd proceeded to rattle off ad-lib parole conditions. Those conditions included the payment of $1000 upon release; an immediate return to work; night time curfews; an alcohol ban; and residing at just one address.

He made those offers without any solicitor advice.

Rudd added that his fiancée was nearly four months’ pregnant and as such, needed another source of income and support.

The Goulburn man pinpointed the removal of medication - understood to be methadone - as the catalyst for the theft of drugs.

“I was on medication and then I stopped getting it,” Rudd explained.

While his parole plea failed, Rudd did have one win: he will be assessed for an Intensive Corrections Order.

Sergeant Toole told the court Rudd could not be released from prison at this stage as he’d previously breached bail conditions.

The soon-to-be father appeared at Goulburn Local Court less than a fortnight earlier, on May 1.

“We’ll be asking that the matters proceed accordingly, your honour,” Sergeant Toole began.

“When you look at the rather thick document called his record, you can see him going down the same path.

Magistrate Richardson agreed.

“I form the opinion that you should be in prison,” he said.

“In the meantime, you will be refused bail. You will appear via AVL on June 25.
