
SALINAS &GT;&GT; A little more than a week after a favorable ruling in a Brown Act lawsuit, the Monterey County Board of Supervisors is set to conduct its first closed session performance evaluation of the year after conducting nearly 60 of them last year.

But Supervisor Lou Calcagno, the board chairman, said the practice would be used sparingly as long as he's chair. He credited the public debate over the private employee reviews, as well as the ongoing lawsuit alleging violation of the state's open-meeting law and the District Attorney's office investigation, for the shift.

At the same time, the DA's office is expected to issue a report this week from its investigation of the private employee reviews practice.

Tuesday, the supervisors are scheduled to conduct a performance review for Natividad Medical Center CEO Harry Weis during the usual morning closed session set for 9 a.m. The board's regular session agenda is expected to be relatively brief and the closed session is set to continue after the lunch break.

Weis runs a county hospital facing a number of challenges, including the impact of health reform, preparation for a new trauma center designation, and potential affiliation talks with Salinas Valley Memorial Hospital.

Calcagno said today's schedule was intentionally set so there would be plenty of time to complete Weis' private review so the board wouldn't have to continue it to future meetings, as it has done in the past.

"We're going to have (private employee reviews) very sparsely," he said. "We're aware of the community's concerns and we pretty much stayed away from (them this year)."

County Counsel Charles McKee "was always confident we were within the Brown Act. But the public's concern is transparency and closed door deals. I know we didn't make any closed door deals but we want the public to feel the Board of Supervisors is giving them full transparency, and holding performance evaluations to a minimum."

McKee said in March he expected the supervisors would shortly resume conducting the private employee reviews, and has hailed a judge's ruling in favor of the county.

On May 9, Judge Kay Kingsley ruled in the Brown Act lawsuit brought by Save Our Peninsula Committee that the county did not appear to have violated the state's open meetings law, known as the Brown Act, during three such private employee reviews conducted in November and December after she conducted an extensive review of them with county attorneys in her chambers. The ruling was a victory for county attorneys who insisted despite public criticism that the private reviews were proper under the Brown Act.

However, Kingsley has not yet ruled on the plaintiff's bid for an injunction that would require the county to tape-record all future private employee reviews to establish a record.  The judge is expected to do that June 6. The plaintiff has also asked the judge to release the transcript from her review of the county's records of the private employee reviews.

Rosenthal said the plaintiff never called for the supervisors to stop conducting legitimate private employee reviews, and said the real question is why the county stopped conducting them for months considering its argument in court that it had relied on the practice to support a new, more proactive management style.

A leaked report from the supervisors' Nov. 5 private employee review for county Water Resources Agency general manager David Chardavoyne, who was also the subject of the two December closed session reviews considered by the judge, sparked public outcry when it indicated the supervisors had discussed the potential wholesale of Salinas River water under a highly prized and much-debated river water diversion permit.

In addition to the lawsuit, the DA's office began investigating the county's practice of conducting several private employee reviews for each of its five top executives, including Weis, Chardavoyne, McKee, County Administrative Officer Lew Bauman, and Equal Opportunity Officer Irma Ramirez-Baugh, last year after McKee and others requested an inquiry.

Chief Deputy DA Terry Spitz said Monday he is preparing a report for DA Dean Flippo on the status of the investigation, including the judge's ruling and its impact on the investigation, and possible courses of action to pursue. Spitz said he hopes to have a decision from Flippo on how to proceed this week.

Spitz said earlier this month the investigation would rely heavily on the lawsuit to produce evidence of the county's private employee reviews, noting that the court can compel the county to produce privileged records the DA's office cannot.

Jim Johnson can be reached at 753-6753.
