
Father of imprisoned teen to Texas authorities: I'm frightened of what you'll do to my son.

ROUND ROCK, Texas, May 19 (UPI) -- 19-year-old Jacob Lavoro could be sentenced to life in prison for using hashish oil instead of traditional marijuana plants too make pot brownies in Texas.

"I've been doing this 22 years as a lawyer and I've got 10 years as a police officer and I've never seen anything like this before," Jack Holmes, Lavoro's attorney, said.

The fact that the brownies were made with hash oil instead of the marijuana plant the oil is derived from allows prosecutors in Texas to count every portion of the pastry -- including the sugar, cocoa, butter and eggs -- as an illegal drug. Lavoro's single-batch produced a pound-and-a-half of brownies, or, in the eyes of prosecutors, 660 grams of marijuana.

"Five years to life?" said Joe Lavoro, the accused's father. "I'm sorry. I'm a law-abiding citizen. I'm a conservative. I love my country. I'm a Vietnam veteran, but I'll be damned. This is wrong. This is damn wrong!"

If he did something wrong, he should be punished -- but to the extent that makes sense.This is illogical. I'm really upset, and I'm frightened, I'm frightened for my son.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
