
There were 50 bookings at the San Joaquin County Jail in the 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. Sunday. At that time, there were 1,456 people held at the jail, which has an official capacity of 1,411. When the jail is full, some inmates may be released early.

There were 50 bookings at the San Joaquin County Jail in the 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. Sunday. At that time, there were 1,456 people held at the jail, which has an official capacity of 1,411. When the jail is full, some inmates may be released early.

Weapons arrest: A 23-year-old man was arrested about 12:14 a.m. Sunday after a fight with security at a business in the 2300 block of Pacific Avenue. Police said Paul Gregorio, 23, pulled out a loaded handgun during an altercation with security and a struggle ensued. Gregorio was disarmed and held until police arrived, reports say.

Person shot: A male teenager was standing at Pock Lane and Long Island Drive about 1:34 a.m. Sunday when he was shot once. He was treated at a local medical facility. There is no suspect information.

Weapons arrest: Officers responded to the 1700 block of East Hammer Lane at 10:32 p.m. Saturday for a disturbance. Police said officers made contact with Ruben Cardenas, 28, the suspect, and then he fled on foot. Officers caught up to Cardenas and upon searching him found a loaded semi-automatic handgun, police said.

Assault with a deadly weapon: Several individuals were standing at the 6100 block of Greenfield Lane about 1:50 p.m. Sunday when a dark green or grey, four-door, Lexus stopped near them and its occupants fired several rounds at them. No one was injured, but a residence was struck. The suspects fled northbound on Greenfield. The driver was described as a Latino male adult, wearing a white T-shirt and a passenger was described as a Latino adult male, wearing a white T-shirt and a turqoise hat.

The Stockton Fire Department responded to 104 calls for service in the 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. Sunday, including five vehicle accidents, 79 medical calls and three structure fires.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
