
The Headquarters of the New York Air National Guard in Latham—responsible for overseeing the 6,000-member force—received the Air Force Organizational Excellence Award.

The New York Air National Guard is the largest Air National Guard in the United States, with five flying wings, several smaller elements and the Eastern Air Defense Sector, which operates as part of the North American Aerospace Defense Command.

The awards are based on the missions the unit executed, inspection results, involvement in the local community, deployments conducted and overall unit readiness, and other awards and honors.

Competition for these awards was “extremely keen,” said Lt. Gen. Stanley. E. Clarke, the director of the Air National Guard.

“Each winner is commended for having been selected from an outstanding group of nominees,” Clarke said. “ The dedication and commitment of the members of these organizations enable the Air National Guard to fulfill its commitment  to the missions of peacekeeping, humanitarian relief, domestic improvement and most important of all—the defense of America,” Clarke added.

The 174th Attack Wing, which operates the MQ-9 remotely piloted aircraft, was recognized for accomplishments for the period from Nov. 1, 2011 to Oct. 31, 2012.

During this period the wing stood up a field training unit to instruct MQ-9 pilots and sensor operators while flying 9,000 hours of MQ-9 missions to support troops on the ground in Afghanistan.

At  the same time the wing helped deploy members of the New York Army National Guard’s 27th Infantry Brigade from Hancock Field Air National Guard Base and mobilized Airmen to help respond when Hurricane Sandy struck New York.

Pilots of the 174th Attack Wing also flew an RC-26 aircraft which provided assistance to law enforcement in the seizure of illegal drugs and drug trade assets amounting to more than $100 million.

The 106th Rescue Squadron, which flies HH-60 Pavehawk rescue helicopters and HH-130 search and rescue aircraft, was cited for its service from Oct. 1, 2011, to Sept. 30, 2012.

During that period the 106th Rescue Wing deployed helicopters and personnel to both Iraq and Afghanistan where they provided rescue support to American and coalition units.

The wing also participated in the state response to Winter Storms Saturn and Ukko, Super Storm Sandy, and Tropical Storm Irene with both personnel, ground vehicles—especially snowmobiles during the winter storms—and aircraft. The wing also supported the New York National Guard’s security augmentation mission in New York City with Airmen.

The 152nd Air Operations Group, a highly-trained team of officers and non-commissioned officers who plan and execute air campaigns and operations, was recognized for its officers and Airmen’s accomplishments from March 1, 2011 to Feb. 28, 2013.

During this period the group deployed individuals and teams overseas to assist in eight operations. Among these were operation Odyssey Dawn, and NATO operation Unified Protector, allied assistance to forces seeking to overthrow Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi. The group also helped train American and allied personnel in seven different exercises. During Hurricane Irene in 2011 and Superstorm Sandy in 2012, group members facilitated air operations in 25 rescues and the evacuation of 20,000 people from storm-threatened areas around the country.

The 109th Security Forces Squadron, an element of the 109th Airlift Wing, which flies ski-equipped aircraft to the Antarctic and Arctic, was recognized for its work from Sept. 14, 2011 to Sept. 14, 2013. Security forces squadrons provide ground security to Air Force bases here at home and around the world.

During that two year period the squadron deployed personnel to Afghanistan twice and supported state responses to Tropical Storm Irene and Super Storm Sandy.

The squadron also assisted security forces squadrons at Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station and Stewart Air National Guard Base in Newburgh when they required additional security assistance. The squadron also planned and executed an active shooter exercise with local law enforcement personnel at Stratton Air National Guard base in 2011.

Headquarters New York Air National Guard, which provides administrative support to the largest state Air National Guard in the United States—with five air wings and the Eastern Air Defense Sector in Rome—was recognized for its role from June 1, 2011 to May 30, 2013.

During that period the New York Air National Guard headquarters helped deploy Airmen in support of the New York National Guard response to Tropical Storm Irene and Super Storm Sandy, while organizing Air Guard participation in emergency response and homeland security exercises.

New York Air National Guard senior leaders were also recognized for playing a key role in the New York National Guard’s partnership program with the South African military during Exercise Shared Accord in 2013.

This work, Five New York Air National Guard units honored, by Eric Durr , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
