
ATHENS, Ga. -- One person died Monday and another was in jail after a fire broke out, overnight, at an Athens motel, America's Best Inn, at 2715 Atlanta Highway, west of downtown Athens.

Motel guests awoke just before 1:00 a.m. Monday to the smell of smoke, the sight of flames shooting out of Room 211, the sounds of alarms and sirens.

And they soon learned that the fire killed the woman who was staying in room 211.

The woman was Anita Dantzer Watson, 34, mother of four, who grew up on a farm a few miles away.  She was always known as Dantzer as she rode horses across the fields, attended church functions, enjoyed friends and school.

But her father told 11Alive News Monday evening, through his tears, that years ago they lost Dantzer to addiction and drugs, and they tried to rescue her again and again.  Her children live with other family members and, the father said, "Dantzer loved them with all her heart," but she was, in recent months, unable or unwilling to get any sort of treatment that might have helped her overcome and control her addiction.

Most recently she'd taken up with Richard Ashley McGaha, 34.

McGaha was with her in the motel room.  He escaped the fire.  Police arrested him and they're investigating whether he caused the fire, whether he killed her.

The GBI is conducting the autopsy.

McGaha grew up a few miles away in Bogart.  His neighbors told 11Alive News Monday that McGaha started getting into trouble as a teenager; then he inherited his parents' double-wide and the property on which it sits.  He racked up a long rap sheet, on burglary and drug convictions. Neighbors were afraid to speak on camera, afraid of his friends, they said.

Sunday night -- as Dantzer's father described it -- only a couple of hours before the fire, Dantzer's sister found her at the motel, and tried to talk her into coming home.  The sister finally left the motel without her, and went back to the farm, where Dantzer's family was gathered Monday evening, mourning losing Dantzer all over again.

Police have initially charged McGaha with second-degree criminal property damage.  Once their investigation is complete they will decide whether to file any other charges against him, such as for arson and homicide-related offenses.

Your privacy is important to us. See our Privacy Policy .

Stay up to date with your community!

Get news & deals from Athens for free!
