
A murderer was last night being hunted after going on the run from prison for a FOURTH time.

Police warned people not to approach Arnold Pickering, 44, or armed robber Thomas Moffett, 51, after both failed to return from day release on Saturday.

Pickering got life for the 1990 stabbing of a disabled man, falsely rumoured to be a paedophile, on his own doorstep.

after six hours.

In 2009 he was on the run four days before handing himself in – after being let out to work as a binman.

He also walked out of an open prison in Sussex, making his latest escape his fourth.

That time he disappeared from Ford open prison, near Arundel, in 2006 and spent nine days on the run before being caught in a flat in Bournemouth.

Moffett was jailed after threatening shopkeepers with a nail gun in 2006.

Merseyside police said the pair were risk assessed as "suitable for temporary release" from HMP Kennet, Liverpool.

Conservative MP for Shipley Philip Davies described Pickering's latest disappearance as an "absolute scandal".

He said: "How on earth people like this can ever be given temporary release from prison on licence is beyond me.

"Murderers are walking out of prison willy nilly."

And Sadiq Khan MP, Labour’s Shadow Justice Secretary, said: "These types of incidents are becoming a habit on David Cameron's Government's watch.

"With overcrowding and slashed staff levels, the fear is this cutting corners is putting the public at risk."

Prisons Minister Jeremy Wright promised "major changes" as a "matter of urgency" and said the temporary licence system has been too lax.

This month Michael Wheatley, 55 – nicknamed Skull Cracker – went on the run from open prison for five days.

He is serving 13 life sentences for robbery and is now charged with another while he was being hunted.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
