
Christopher S. Kirby, 27, of Liberty, faces two felony counts of assault on a law enforcement officer and a felony count of resisting arrest.

A man is accused of trying to mow down two police officers after  stealing taquitos from a Kansas City area convenience store, according to court  documents.

Christopher S. Kirby, 27, of Liberty, faces two felony counts of assault on a law enforcement officer and a felony count of resisting arrest. According to court documents, Kirby had an open container of alcohol, and items typically used as drug paraphernalia were found in Kirby's vehicle when he was arrested.

Events began unfolding just after midnight Monday.

A North Kansas City Police Department officer was in his uniform working security at the QuikTrip at 1010 Armour Rd.  A store clerk alerted the officer that the man identified as Kirby was stealing taquitos, according to court documents.

Kirby fled the store with the officer in pursuit on foot. When the Kirby got into his car to take off, he allegedly backed up and nearly ran the officer over.

"Officer Krogsdale was nearly struck with the driver's side front fender and felt the vehicle as it traveled passed his leg," according to court documents. "Kirby then excessively accelerated, causing tire noise and fled from QuikTrip without regard for the safety of others."

The off-duty officers alerted other officers via his radio.

Police later found him  in a driveway on the 1000 block east of 25th Street. Kirby jumped into the car again, and when he backed up, he attempted to run over a second officer, according to court documents. Kirby was allegedly driving at a high rate of speed.

"Officer Lull had to run to avoid being struck by the suspect vehicle. Officer Lull reported that the vehicle backed directly at her and in the process of running out of its path, she stumbled onto the driver's side of the vehicle where she caught her balance on the driver's side door and window," according to court documents.

The chase went on high speeds on Interstate 35 with Kirby allegedly driving 90 mph in a 55 mph zone with officers in hot pursuit.

North Kansas City police ended their pursuit but asked the Kansas City Police Department and its police helicopter for assistance.

Police used stop sticks to disable Kirby's vehicle. He was found hiding behind a house near 5110 N. Denver Ave. in Kansas City, MO.

Kirby asked for an attorney when detectives attempted to question him. He has previously been arrested for marijuana possession, domestic assault, first-degree property damage, first-degree burglary, first-degree tampering with a motor vehicle, second-degree assault, resisting arrest and failure to appear.

Copyright 2014  KCTV  (Meredith Corp.) All rights reserved.

Rod Nylund is ready to start doing work on the home he just purchased, but he was shocked to find the house occupied and the locks changed.

On Monday, summer vacation ended for more than 300,000 students in the Clark County School District as classes began for the new school year.

Police said two men exchanging gunshots in a North Las Vegas neighborhood Sunday resulted in one of them being killed.

All content © 2014, KVVU Broadcasting Corporation, Las Vegas, NV and WorldNow.  All Rights Reserved.
