
Former Boston Police Commissioner Kathleen O'Toole was introduced as the mayor's pick for the city's top cop at a press conference Monday morning.

"I made a commitment to find the best possible chief of police for Seattle, and that's exactly what I have found in Kathleen O'Toole," Murray said. "The Seattle Police Department deserves the best leadership possible to drive ongoing reform efforts - not for the sake of reform, and not even for the sake of compliance with the federal court, but because all individuals in this city deserve to feel safe and protected in their communities."

O'Toole, who also served as inspector general of Ireland's national police force, beat out two other finalists: Elk Grove, California, Police Chief Robert Lehner and Mesa, Arizona, Police Chief Frank Milstead.

O'Toole, 59, joined Boston Police as a patrol officer in 1979 and worked her way up through the ranks. She later worked in other public safety positions in Massachusetts, including as the state's secretary of public safety.

She returned to serve as Boston's police commissioner from 2004 to 2006 before completing a six-year term as chief of an oversight body responsible for reforms in the Irish national police force.

She has since focused on consulting work, including helping to monitor whether police in East Haven, Connecticut, are complying with a federal mandate to curtail false arrests, discriminatory policing and excessive force.

"I am humbled and excited to have this extraordinary opportunity," O'Toole said. "I look forward to working with Mayor Murray, members of the Seattle Police Department and the community to restore trust and develop a police service second to none."

Former Seattle chief John Diaz announced his retirement in April 2013 after a rocky, three-year tenure. He was succeeded by two interim chiefs, Jim Pugel and Harry Bailey.

U.S. Justice Department investigators found in 2011 that officers too often escalated situations unnecessarily and sometimes used excessive force. Investigators also raised concerns about biased policing.

O'Toole must still be confirmed by the city council. If approved, she'll be Seattle's first female police chief.

KIRO Radio's Brandi Kruse will sit down with O'Toole for a one-on-one interview Monday afternoon.

KIRO Radio's Brandi Kruse and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

ATTENTION COMMENTERS: We've changed our comments, but want to keep you in the conversation.

Please login below with your Facebook, Twitter, Google+ or Disqus account.  Existing MyNorthwest account holders will need to create a new Disqus account or use one of the social logins provided below. Thank you.
