
Johns Hopkins University has suspended a fraternity involved in a number of high profile incidents at the campus.

JHU, located in Baltimore, Md., announced Saturday the Pi Kappa Alpha, or PIKE, is suspended for one year. The fraternity was the location of a stabbing earlier this year and investigation of an alleged gang rape at the house in 2013, however, neither incident was directly related to PIKE's punishment.

PIKE's punishment stems from "underage drinking and the provision of alcohol to minors, unsafe behavior, failure to comply with university and police directives, and disturbance of neighbors" during a party in April. The frat was already on probation for "similar violations at an unregistered party in January," the university said. At the January party, one PIKE brother was stabbed .

The fraternity previously investigated by Baltimore police in 2013 for an alleged gang rape at the house. JHU knew of the PIKE investigation, but decided against telling the university community, and now faces a federal complaint for failing to do so.

The chapter’s most recent violations of those standards occurred at a Homecoming weekend party at its off-campus apartment building (known as the Pike house). University and city authorities witnessed underage drinking and the provision of alcohol to minors, unsafe behavior, failure to comply with university and police directives, and disturbance of neighbors.

These violations occurred while Pike was already on probation for similar violations at an unregistered party in January. As part of that probation, the chapter had been prohibited from sponsoring social events this semester.

There also have been other significant complaints and allegations made regarding the Pike fraternity. The sanctions we are announcing today, however, are predicated on conduct described in this message for which the group has been found responsible by the university.

All members must move out of the house, cannot create similar housing arrangements elsewhere and the chapter must create a plan for how it will live up to its stated mission to develop "men of integrity, intellect and high moral character." That plan, subject to university approval, must also include ongoing training.

If the fraternity violates terms of the suspension, it could face expulsion from the JHU campus.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
