
A man reported he was robbed in Leavenworth while he was accompanying a woman he met at a bar, a police spokesman said.

A man reported he was robbed in Leavenworth while he was accompanying a woman he met at a bar, a police spokesman said.

The incident was reported at 2:05 a.m. Sunday.

The victim is a 48-year-old Conroe, Texas, man. He told police had met a woman at a bar in Leavenworth.

The two agreed to go back to the man's hotel room. They traveled in separate vehicles with the man following the woman, said Maj. Dan Nicodemus, deputy chief of the Leavenworth Police Department.

The woman stopped at a residence in the 2000 block of South Fifth St. She reportedly told the victim she had to get something.

As the victim was walking with the woman up to the residence, they were approached by two men. One of the men allegedly placed something against the back of the victim's head and threatened to shoot him.

The woman then allegedly went through the victim's pockets, taking $160 in cash and a driver's license, Nicodemus said.

"They also got the keys to his vehicle and went through his vehicle," Nicodemus said.

A cell phone and GPS unit were taken from the victim's car.

The woman and two other suspects then got into her car and left the area.

The victim went to a nearby gas station and contacted the police.

Nicodemus said police have not found the suspects.

The woman was described as a white woman who is about 5 feet 1 inch tall. She weighs about 110 pounds and has brown, shoulder length hair.

The suspect who allegedly threatened to shoot the victim was described as a short black man with a large build.

The other suspect was described as a tall black man with a medium build.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
