
May 20, 2014, 10:30 a.m.

DUBBO: Dubbo City Council’s Planning and Development Committee have voted to recommend proposed changes to South Dubbo zoning not go ahead.

In a decision welcomed by residents, Dubbo City Council Planning and Development Committee has voted against a rezoning proposal for South Dubbo.

Six of seven councillors who were able to vote on the issue elected to vote against the South Dubbo Housing Choices Planning Proposal.

Kevin Parker was the only one to vote against the motion.

The proposal will be put to council at next Monday's monthly meeting where the recommendation will be to not make the plan and take no further action.

Councillor Rod Towney was absent from the meeting because of personal reasons and a further three councillors withdrew because of pecuniary interests.

Cr Shields, Reynolds, Smith, Mohr, Matthews and Griffiths all spoke and indicated the weight of public opinion had been a significant factor in their decision.

Cr Shields said he was initially in favour of the idea of diversifying houses but after hearing feedback from residents, he believes rezoning South Dubbo is not in the city’s best interests.

That had compelled him to vote against the proposal.

 “On this occasion I think it is important we go with what the public wants us to do,” he said.

Earlier those attending meeting heard from four speakers, who all argued against the proposal.

A report commissioned by council revealed that the proposed changes could increase the population of South Dubbo by 130 dwellings and 327 people by 2026. However most resident's concerns relate to possible crime and deteriorating social behaviour if the area begins to cater for low socio-economic households.

Ray Tickle, Gary Black, Steve Hodder and Shaun Maloney all asked council to reject the South Dubbo plan because of the overwhelming opposition.

They argued that South Dubbo residents did not want the imposition that multi-dwelling housing would bring. They also said once allowed, rezoned residential could not be undone and would have a long lasting effect on the city.

They argued 402 submissions against the proposal and just 26 for showed how unpopular the proposal was.
