
TORRINGTON >> The city’s Veterans’ Support Committee has chosen three Torrington natives to serve as honorary marshals for the 2014 Memorial Day Parade.

Thomas Frank Eucalitto, who served in the Air Force during the Cold War, Roger O. Geiger, who served in the Army National Guard during the Vietnam War era, and Joseph J. Roman, who served in the Army during World War II, were announced as honorary marshals in a release on Monday sent by chairman of the Torrington Veterans’ Support Committee Leo Martigneni.

Eucalitto is being honored posthumously, as he passed away on July 11, 2013.

Martigneni said the public should attend the parade and the ceremony after the parade to express gratitude and honor not only to veterans and service men and women of today, but to honor the memory of those no longer alive.

Roman endured numerous and extreme combat situations, Martigneni said, and experienced injury and sickness. Among his many accomplishments after the war, Roman would go on to teach at South School and Torringford, before becoming a principal at Southeast School. He has been married to his wife, Mary, for 58 years.

An Airman First Class, Eucalitto served in the 24th Helicopter Squadron, as he was based in the Pacific theater for nearly seven months as an aircraft navigational equipment and aircraft radio repairman during the Cold War era. He ended up joining law enforcement after he was discharged in 1961, serving as a Connecticut State Trooper for 25 years with Troop B in Canaan. He was in a country-western band and participated actively with local VFWs after his retirement. He married his wife, Janet, in 1961, as he was survived by her and their two daughters, Colleen and Maria Elena, after he passed last year.

“He devoted his time to supporting and honoring his fellow veterans in life and when it was time to place them in their final resting place,” Martigneni said of Eucalitto.

After an accident involving a live mortar shell in Fort Dix, N.J., in 1963, Geiger was left 20 percent disabled, though he would go on to work at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital for 27 years after being discharged by the Connecticut Army National Guard. He is the founder of the “Heroes on Wheels” program, which collects and rehabilitates used medical equipment like wheelchairs that are donated to those in need, especially veterans.

“He continues today to help not only veterans and their families, but also others in the community through programs founded by him, his wife, and others,” Martigneni said.

Geiger married his wife Diane in 1966 and enjoys going to car shows to display his 1951 Ford custom hot rod.

The parade takes place on Monday, May 26.

Reach Esteban L. Hernandez at (860) 489-3121, ext. 328.
