
Share This Story!

A Republican candidate for Congress in Arizona has apologized for saying most mass shooters are Democrats. He also has compared Vietnamese refugees to illegal immigrants and police officers to Nazis.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Gary Kiehne, a northern Arizona rancher and oilman, is the second Republican to announce his intention to unseat Democratic U.S. Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick.

An Arizona Republican candidate for Congress has apologized for saying most mass shooters are Democrats.

It's the latest in a string of inflammatory remarks from Gary Kiehne, who has compared Vietnamese refugees to illegal immigrants and police officers to Nazis.

GOP opponents say Kiehne should withdraw from the race.

A Republican candidate for Congress in Arizona has backtracked on three controversial remarks: claiming most mass shooters are Democrats, and comparing Vietnamese refugees to illegal immigrants, and police officers carrying out a wildfire evacuation to Nazis agents.

Gary Kiehne, who is running in eastern Arizona's 1st District, made the comments at public forums and to a reporter.

The most recent remark came Saturday at a primary forum hosted by the Pinal County Republican Committee.

When it comes to mass shootings, Kiehne said, "if you look at all the fiascos that have occurred, 99 percent of them have been by Democrats pulling their guns out and shooting people," according to a recording by the Arizona Daily Star. "So, I don't think you have a problem with the Republicans."

Kiehne issued a statement Monday apologizing.

"Simply put, I shouldn't have made the comment," he said.

The mass shooters remark was the latest in a string of inflammatory comments from Kiehne, a rancher, hotel operator and first-time congressional candidate.

Kiehne has touted himself as a tough-talking, unpolished anti-politician.

At events in March and April, Kiehne was recorded comparing Vietnamese refugees to illegal immigrants.

"How many illegal aliens, I mean, how many people did we bring here after the Vietnam conflict? Half a million? 300,000? Know why we didn't get 11 million? They couldn't swim that far," he said, prompting laughter from the crowd at a March 14 forum in Snowflake, according to video obtained by The Arizona Republic. "We got 11 million (illegal immigrants) ... because they could walk (across the U.S.-Mexico border). ... If this country is ever invaded it will be invaded from the south."

At a forum in Casa Grande on April 16, Kiehne made nearly identical comments in response to a question about immigration and the border.

"You remember when the Vietnam conflict was over, sir? How many Vietnamese did we bring into this country? Do you know why we didn't get 11 million? Because they couldn't swim that far," Kiehne said, according the second video .  "Now until we secure our border we're going to continue to have a problem. That's step No. 1 is secure your border."

The end of the Vietnam War in 1975 caused a massive flight of refugees, according to the Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan Washington think tank.

"More than 3 million people fled from Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia, many as 'boat people,' sailing long distances in overcrowded small boats, at risk of shipwreck and pirate attacks," the institute noted in a 2009 article.

More than half a million Vietnamese refugees were accepted by the United States between 1975 and 2004, according to estimates by the institute and the American Immigration Council, a Washington-based immigration advocacy group. Many Vietnamese who were granted visas had risked their lives to help the U.S. military during the conflict. President Gerald Ford signed the Indochina Migration and Refugee Act of 1975 to provide resettlement assistance, according to the council.

"Vietnamese who had worked closely with Americans during the Vietnam War feared reprisals by the Communist party," the council wrote in an article on its website. "They were airlifted or fled Vietnam on U.S. military cargo ships and transferred to United States government bases ... in Guam, Thailand, Wake Island, Hawaii and the Philippines, as part of 'Operation New Life.' "

Kiehne was not disparaging Vietnamese refugees and was "not making light" of their struggle, campaign spokesman Chris Baker said. Instead Kiehne was describing why he supports stronger border security to stem the flow of illegal immigrants from nearby countries across land, campaign spokesman Chris Baker said.

"He was making a joke to prove a point," Baker said. "We didn't have that problem with the Vietnamese because we had the ocean. We have that problem with Mexico because we're so close."

"It is his viewpoint we should not have 11 million illegal immigrants. ... But for the ocean we would have had more," Baker said.

He added that Kiehne intended "no malice" toward Vietnamese refugees and was "not making light" of their struggle.

Baker said Kiehne has worked with immigrants on his family's ranch, supports some form of work permit for illegal immigrants currently in the United States and does not believe it's realistic to deport the more than 11 million people in the U.S. illegally.

Kiehne continued to make controversial remarks on Thursday in an interview with The Republic, as he complained about difficulty getting through police checkpoints during the 2011 Wallow Fire.

He referenced Nazi  agents and said he believed officers were willing to "shoot you and me."

Baker later told The Republic that Kiehne was "expressing disappointment about the way the police had acted during the Wallow Fire."

"Never once did he compare cops to the (expletive) Nazi SS," Baker said.

GOP challenger Tobin, leader of the state House, called on Kiehne to bow out of the race.

"With his pattern of bizarre and deeply offensive remarks, Gary Kiehne has illustrated that he lacks the temperament, character and basic common sense" to represent Arizona in Congress, Tobin said in a written statement. "Suggesting that mass killings are party affiliated is beyond the pale and insulting to the families and victims of these senseless killings."

A third primary candidate, state Rep. Adam Kwasman, R-Oro Valley, said he disagreed with Kiehne's statement about Democratic shooters but did not call on Kiehne to drop out of the race.

"Many of us are still healing from the Tucson tragedy, and these horrific events should not be politicized," Kwasman said. "We need to come together for solutions to help our communities."

Tobin and Kwasman would benefit from Kiehne's departure, some political observers said.

Kiehne promotes his ties to northeastern Arizona, where Tobin and Kwasman don't have histories, and Kiehne could spend large amounts of his own money on the race. Without Kiehne's campaign, Tobin and Kwasman could oppose each other more directly on their state legislative records.

Kiehne released a second statement Monday refusing to drop out and saying Tobin's call for him to bow out is a "desperate plea."

"I'm confident, that when given a choice, the voters would rather have a candidate with the integrity to admit he made a mistake," Kiehne said.
