
Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 12:15 p.m.

FORMER actor/congressman Dennis Roldan has been sentenced by a Pasig City court to life in prison for the kidnapping of a three-year-old Filipino-Chinese boy in 2005.

Roldan, Mitchell Gumabao in real life, was convicted by Judge Rolando Mislang of Pasig Regional Trial Court branch 167 on Tuesday. He was sentence to suffer the penalty of reclusion perpetua or life imprisonment.

NEW DELHI -- A pre-dawn stampede killed 10 people Monday as tens of thousands of Hindus were worshipping in an annual procession in central India, police said.

Some 50,000 devotees had been marking the holy day of Somvati Amavasya by walking or lying down and rolling for five kilometers (three miles) in a wide circle around the spot where the Hindu god Ram is believed to have spent time during his 14 years in exile.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:58 p.m.

MONROVIA, Liberia -- A Liberian doctor who was among three Africans to receive an experimental Ebola drug has died, the country's information minister said Monday, as a top UN delegation promised more help for countries battling the virulent disease during a visit to Sierra Leone.

Dr. Abraham Borbor, the deputy chief medical doctor at Liberia's largest hospital, had received the untested drug, ZMapp, after it was given to two Americans. After receiving medical car in the US they later survived the virus that has killed about half of its victims.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 06:41 p.m.

A FILIPINO who creates beats and sounds using only improvised drums made from tin cans struck the netizens with his superb talent.

The Facebook page "Pinay Astig" uploaded a video of the man whose name was unknown last July 30.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 05:59 p.m.

ENVIRONMENT Secretary Ramon Paje has ordered an investigation on the killing of a Philippine eagle in Mt. Apo in Davao City.

Paje, who condemned the incident, asked the regional environment officials in Davao City to investigate the incident and to seek the assistance of the police and the local government in tracking down the perpetrator and cause the filing of appropriate criminal charges.

PARIS -- French President Francois Hollande dissolved the government on Monday after an open feud in his Cabinet over the country's stagnant economy.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls offered up his Socialist government's resignation after accusing the economy minister of crossing a line with his blunt criticism of the government's policies.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 04:15 p.m.

MANILA - The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) will coordinate with Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte regarding the supposed recruitment of some young Dabawenyos by a rebel group in Iraq and Syria, a Palace official said Monday.

Presidential Spokesperson Edwin Lacierda, quoting Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala, AFP public affairs office chief, however, maintained that so far there was no confirmed information regarding the recruitment of Filipinos to Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (Isis).

MANILA -- (Updated) Government and private employees simultaneously joined Monday the protest rally held at the Luneta Park in Manila to showcase their disdain for the continued presence of the pork barrel system in the government.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 02:27 p.m.

GATHERING six million signatures needed for a referendum on a bill that will abolish the corruption-tainted pork barrel system is difficult but possible, a militant group said Monday.

"We will face the great challenge of collecting six million signatures to pass the People’s Initiative Bill. It may be an arduous task, but we will succeed," said Youth Act Now convenor Victor Villanueva.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 02:19 p.m.

MANILA -- President Benigno Aquino III warned the public on Monday against those pretending of pushing for reforms but only seeking to sow doubt and lies.

The Chief Executive made the warning as he led the celebration of the National Heroes Day in Taguig City and amid the protest action in Rizal Park where participants called for the abolition of pork barrel.
