
A Soledad police sergeant was stabbed Monday while attempting to save an elderly couple whose grandson had gone on a violent spree.

Soledad Police Chief Eric Sills said a 17-year-old boy stabbed his grandmother, grandfather and Sgt. Thomas Marchese. Marchese is a 10-year veteran of the police force.

The melee happened inside a house on Second Street. At 3:30 p.m., someone at the house called 911. Dispatchers said they heard screaming in the background during the call.

The sergeant was the first officer to enter the building and he was immediately stabbed multiple times by the grandson, Sills said.

"He was in good shape, obviously in some pain which would be normal, but he was in good spirits," said Sills.

The grandmother and grandfather were found lying on the floor in a pool of blood.

The woman was suffering from blunt trauma to the back of her head, and the man had stab wounds in his back.

Police shot the teenager with a Taser, but the Taser did not have an effect, Sills said.

Officers then wrestled the teenager to the ground. The teen was hogtied, bound by his hands and legs, and carried face-down into a patrol car.

Several children watched the tense incident unfold from across the street.

"I talked to them all the time, they're nice people," said Alejandro Morales, who lives across the street.

"This is crazy, nothing like this has ever happened here," said another neighbor, Stephani Ponci.

He was released from the hospital and is recuperating at home.

The elderly male victim was flown to a Bay Area trauma center where he was listed in serious condition with multiple stab wounds to his back and chest.

KSBW knows the name of the 17-year old suspect, but is not releasing it because he is a minor.

Backup law enforcement was called in from the Greenfield Police Department, Gonzalez Police Department and the California Highway Patrol.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

The Carmel City Council is asking the California Public Utilities Commission for a formal investigation to the PG&E gas explosion that leveled one home and damaged another in March.
