
Police in Maple Grove, Minnesota, are searching the family home of a 13-year-old girl who disappeared from a gas station in 1989.

Investigators started to search the home on the 9700 block of Hemlock Lane North where Amy Sue Pagnac's mother and step-father still live around 9 a.m. Sunday and were expected to remain at the site until Friday.

Pagnac was reported missing from a Holiday Gas Station in the City of Osseo, on August 5, 1989.

She was last seen sitting in the passenger seat of her non-biological father's car while he went inside to use the restroom.

Authorities have not revealed what sparked the new search but property records show Amy's mother, Sue Pagnac, and step-father, Marshall Midden, still own the house.

The couple were escorted out of the home by police, though no suspects have been named and no one has been taken into custody. The search warrant in the case is sealed.

'Since the Maple Grove Police Department took this report in 1989, we have actively investigated this case. We have been following up on every lead. Part of the investigation is still on going, that is why we are here today,' said Maple Grove Police Captain Keith Terlinden said Sunday, according to ABC 5 .

He added to KARE11.com : 'We really, really want to bring Amy home. There's not an officer in our police department that's not aware of Amy, and we really think it's important and it's our mission to make sure she's brought home.'

Maple Grove police have erected a large tent in front of the home and police were focusing their investigation Sunday at the back of the family's property, which is hidden by a tall fence and thick vegetation.

Crime scene experts carried out boxes of evidence.

She has not been seen since but the Maple Grove Police Department, Hennepin County Sheriff's Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation all say they have continued to investigate her case.

Terlinden  said his investigative team has traveled to Iowa and California to  follow leads in the decades-old case. And now his investigative team  would be working 'around the clock' for at least a few days to hunt for  new clues.

He said as a father of daughters the case struck a chord with him.

Neighbors crowded around the busy crime scene, many of whom remember Amy.

'Every  time you drive by that house, it's like, "where is that little girl?"  It's sad,' Debbie McLennan told KARE. 'We hope they find her. For crying  out loud, it's been so long. Closure and peace. She deserves it.'

The other children to go missing were Jacob Wetterling, who was abducted near his home in St. Joseph, Minnesota, on October 22, 1989 when he was 11.

The child was threatened at gunpoint while playing with his brother and another friend by a stranger.

Aaron Anderson was just 2 when he was abducted while playing in his yard in Pine City, Minnsota, on April 7, 1989.

In an interview with KMSP last year, after the rescue of three woman who had been held captive in Cleveland for more than a decade, Sue Pagnac and Marshal Midden said they believe their daughter is still alive and that the Cleveland story gave them hope.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
