
LAHORE: The treasury benches in Punjab Assembly (PA) passed a resolution to show solidarity with the army for its contribution to the country’s defence amid a boycott from all opposition parties on Monday.

Moonis Elahi, parliamentary leader of the Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid (PML-Q), tried to table a resolution in favour of the army and he constantly made a demand to the chair (Deputy Speaker Sher Ali Gorchani) to give him floor to read out the resolution but failed as the government was not in agreement with the resolution and wanted some amendments to its draft.

After a long protest and walkout from the house during the question hour, the opposition agreed to achieve some consensus with the law minister on a joint resolution.

But, when the law minister was about to table the amended resolution, Moonis rejected the proposed amendments from the government and requested the chair to give him permission to table his resolution.

The deputy speaker, however, did now allow Moonis to table his resolution on which the PML-Q leader tore down the resolution proposed by the government after which members from the PML-Q and other opposition parties, including Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) and Jamaat-e-Islami (JI), walked out.

Speaking on the occasion, Law Minister Rana Sanaullah said that we would not allow anyone to tender “job application” to the army through tabling such resolutions.

The resolution condemned all efforts to make the national institutions controversial for political and factional interests. It expressed resolve that wrong aims of elements involved to malign the army would not be allowed to materialise.

The resolution that Moonis tried to table said that this house shows full solidarity with Armed Forces and appreciates the role of the army in country’s defence and security.

“Enemies of Pakistan and anti-army elements are hurting feelings of the nation and army men after making unnecessary criticism on the national security institutions. This house also shows an aim to oppose anti-Pakistan elements,” the resolution concluded.

On Monday, the PA session started two and a half hours behind scheduled time of 3pm. During question hour, Industries Minister Chaudhry Shafiq answered queries relating to industries, commerce and investment departments.

The law minister also laid a bill about Khawaja Farid University of Engineering and Information Technology, Rahim Yar Khan.
