
Landowners angry over a controversial planning law introduced in the aftermath of Black Saturday have petitioned the Victorian Planning Minister to speed-up changes to the legislation.

Up to 5,000 landholders were affected by the Bushfire Management Overlay (BMO), which prevents new homes from being built on land deemed to be a high-fire risk.

The State Government has reaffirmed its plans to change the law, but the Opposition and some landholders have taken aim at the delay in doing so.

Jacqui McIntosh said she and her family bought a block in 2010, with a plan to build on it two years later.

"We put everything that we had into buying our land so that we could build our home," she said.

Ms McIntosh said after purchasing the land they were told building could not go ahead under the planning laws.

"We're happy to build a bushfire safe house as much as we can... but to tell us we can't have anything when there's something 100 metres away, it doesn't make sense," she said.

"We're moving into a caravan, because everything has gone into our block of land to build our dream home one day."

Arthur Jones said the laws have made his land "valueless".

"It's reached a stage where the mortgagers are starting to say, what's going on?" he said.

"We've not been able to give a satisfactory answer for two years now."

Landowners 'trapped in a nightmare'

Opposition planning spokesman Brian Tee said affected landholders were suffering.

"The banks are foreclosing on a number of these people who are trapped in a nightmare because they can't build on their land, they can't sell their land," he said.

"It's affecting their health and their marriages and they feel they've been left to fend for themselves by [Premier Denis] Napthine."

But Mr Guy said changes were always set to be made this month.

"I've constantly said that bushfire changes will be made in May. We're now in May and I expect them to be announced very soon," he said.

Mr Guy also addressed claims that people were losing their land and said he did not know of any bank foreclosures.

"I don't have any evidence of people having lost any properties," he said.

"I make no apology for standing up for the preservation of human life first and planning permits second."

Last year Kalorama resident Christine Snow told the ABC her daughter was in financial trouble because she was paying a mortgage on a block of land near them and was unable to build on it.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
