
The Tanzania Teachers Union (TTU) has blamed the ministry of Education and Vocational Training for poor record keeping which has denied promotion to over 2,000 inspectors and trainers for 26 years now.

According to TTU, at least 2,450 inspectors and trainers have not been promoted since 1988 and surprisingly the ministry does not even have record of some of such employees. This has in a way demoralised such employees who qualified to be promoted to higher ranks at some point.

Speaking at the 22nd Annual General Meeting of the ministry of Education and Vocational Training workers’ council held in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, TTU Assistant Secretary General, Ezekiel Oluoch said whenever the Union asks for explanation, the ministry says files with information of such trainers and inspectors are missing.

He said as a result the ministry has therefore failed to promote some deserving employees.

He insisted that the trainers and inspectors who were supposed to have been promoted to higher ranks are under the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and not in the Prime Minister's Office-Regional Administration and Local Government (Education) as many people might think.

The ministry’s Deputy Permanent Secretary Consolata Mgimba admitted that some documents of other workers are missing.

She said the files are either misplaced or have ended up in the hands of the wrong people – such as landing in a department that does not deal with such employees.

However, she clarified that the responsibility of promoting the employees is under the Public Service Recruitment Secretariat (PSRS).

She said the ministry has already sent the names of inspectors and trainers who deserve promotion to PSRS so that they are promoted in the 2014/15 financial year.

Mgimba further said dividing the employees putting some under the Prime Minister’s Office- Regional Administration and Local Government (Education) while others remained under the ministry of Education and Vocational Training contributed to a mix-up which left others missing opportunities of being promoted.

Meanwhile, the minister for Education and Vocational Training, Dr Shukuru Kawambwa who officially opened the General Meeting said implementation of the Big Results Now (BRN) initiative has been affected by financial constraints.
