
BEIRUT: Future MP Ammar Houri said Monday that his group supports any presidential candidate who wins the majority of votes and assured that the rapprochement with the Free Patriotic Movement is not limited to the presidential election.

“We have said it and we say it again, we do not have a veto on any presidential candidate,” Houri told the voice of Lebanon radio station.

“Although we have our own March 14 candidate at the moment, we will support any candidate who gets 65 votes,” he said.

Houri said it is still possible to hold the presidential election, which must be held within the week to abide by the constitutional deadline of May 25.

The lawmaker also reiterated that former Prime Minister Saad Hariri is not discussing his own candidacy for the post of prime minister, and said his group’s recent openness to the FPM is all-inclusive.

“Hariri did not discuss his candidacy for the premiership in any of his meetings,” Houri said.

“Dialogue between the  Free Patriotic Movement and the Future Movement is comprehensive and not limited to the presidential election."

“But it will not necessarily lead to a consensus on the presidential election,” he added.

Media reports have emerged recently about a deal that would see Aoun as a consensus president, in return for Hariri becoming prime minister.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Future MP Ammar Houri said Monday that his group supports any presidential candidate who wins the majority of votes and assured that the rapprochement with the Free Patriotic Movement is not limited to the presidential election.

Houri said it is still possible to hold the presidential election, which must be held within the week to abide by the constitutional deadline of May 25 .
