
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

TRIPOLI, Libya--Libya's army chief ordered the deployment of Islamist-led militias to the capital Tripoli on Monday in response to the storming of parliament by forces loyal to a renegade general, paving the way for a possible showdown between rival militia fighters.

The revolt by Gen. Khalifa Hifter threatens to detonate the long volatile divisions among the multiple militias that dominate Libya amid the weakness of the central government and military. Hifter says he aims to crush Islamists he accuses of seizing control of the country and he appears to have the support of some militias from the eastern half of the country and the western Zintan region.

In the other camp, parliament chief Nouri Abu Sahmein--an Islamist-leaning politician--ordered a powerful umbrella group of mainly Islamist militias known as "Libya's Central Shield" to mobilize on Monday to defend against Hifter's forces. The umbrella group is dominated by a militia from Libya's third largest city, Misrata.

Further raising the potential for chaos, one of Libya's many al Qaeda-inspired extremist groups on Monday vowed to fight Hifter's forces.

"You have entered a battle you will lose," a masked militant, identifying himself as Abu Musab al-Arabi, said in a video posted on militant websites by the Lions of Monotheism.

The confrontation further deepens the chaos Libya has endured since the 2011 ouster and killing of longtime leader Moammar Gadhafi. With militias running rampant, the central government has little power, and the army and police remain shattered since the civil war that ousted Gadhafi. Parliament is divided between Islamist parties--which hold a majority--and their opponents, each of which are backed by rival militias.

Hifter, a former rebel in the fight against Gadhafi, appears to be trying to harness widespread public frustration with the government's impotence, vowing get rid of extremists and impose an effective authority.

On Sunday, militiamen loyal to him stormed the parliament building in Tripoli, ransacking the building. Two people were reportedly killed and more than 50 wounded. Hifter's allies then announced that the legislature had been suspended and replaced by a new emergency body that would run the country.

The attack in Tripoli followed assaults Friday by Hifter's forces on Islamist militias in the restive eastern city of Benghazi, which authorities said killed 70 people.

Libyan officials believe members of the al-Qaaqaa and Sawaaq militias--the largest in Tripoli--backed Hifter. His backers also include members of a federalist group that had declared an autonomous eastern government and seized the region's oil terminals and ports for months, demanding a bigger share of oil revenues.

Hifter's declaration of parliament's suspension was largely ignored, and his forces pulled out late Sunday. For hours afterward, fighting took place around the road to the Tripoli's airport and its southern outskirts. By Monday morning, the gunfire died down and a tentative calm returned to the city.

Authorities seemed determined to convey a message of business-as-usual. Libyan news agency LANA cited the Ministry of Education as denying that high school end-of-term exams were suspended. The ministry urged students to go to school as normal.

Bringing the militias under control has been one of the greatest challenges for Libya's successive interim governments, one they have largely failed at as militias have seized oil terminals and even kidnapped a prime minister, seemingly at will. The militias arose from the rebel brigades that were created to fight Gadhafi's forces but have since expanded dramatically in size and power. Many are based in particular cities or neighborhoods, some are based on ethnic identity--and others are based on Islamist or al Qaeda-inspired ideologies.

TRIPOLI, Libya--A revolt by a renegade general against Islamists who dominate Libya's politics threatened to spiral into an outright battle for power that could fragment the North African nation as the country's numerous armed militias started to line up Monday behind the rival camps.

Gen. Khalifa Hifter, who lived for years in exile in the U.S. during the rule of autocrat Moammar Gadhafi, touts himself as a nationalist who is waging a war against terrorism to save Libya from Islamic extremists.

His loyalists and allies in the past days attacked Islamist militias in the eastern city of Benghazi and on Sunday stormed the Islamist-led parliament in the capital Tripoli.

Gen. Hifter's opponents accuse him of seeking to grab power, acting on behalf of former regime figures in exile by orchestrating an Egyptian-style military overthrow of Islamists that would wreck already faltering attempts to foster democracy.

Since Gadhafi's ouster and death in a 2011 civil war, Libya has been in chaos. The central government has almost no authority. The military and police, shattered during the civil war, have never recovered and remain in disarray.

Filling the void are hundreds of militias around the country. Many of them are locally based, rooted in specific cities or neighborhoods. Others are based on ethnic allegiances. Still others have embraced al Qaeda-inspired extremism.

The country has held several elections, including ones that created a new parliament. But administrations have been paralyzed by the competition between Islamist parties and their rivals, each of which are backed by militias.

Islamist lawmakers who dominate parliament removed the Western-backed prime minister this year and named an Islamist-leaning figure, Ahmed Maiteg, to replace him in a vote their opponents say was illegal.

In response to the parliament attack, the Islamist-leaning head of the legislature, Nouri Abu Sahmein, ordered militias backing his camp to deploy in Tripoli to resist what he called "the attempt to wreck the path of democracy and take power."

The pro-parliament militias are largely from Libya's third-largest city of Misrata, one of Islamists' biggest constituencies. Footage posted online by Misrata forces showed hundreds of pickup trucks mounted with antiaircraft guns, tanks and armored vehicles it said were ready to move into the capital.

But backing for parliament appeared to be eroding, including within the interim government installed by lawmakers after the prime minister's removal.

The interim government, led by the defense minister, put forward a proposal for resolving the conflict. It said parliament should hold a new vote on a prime minister, pass a budget and then halt work to allow new parliament elections.

Parliament's mandate expired earlier this year, and Islamists' opponents have held protests demanding it be dissolved. Units of the weak military on Monday began splitting from their top generals to support Gen. Hifter.

The commander of an elite army unit in Benghazi, the Special Forces, announced his support for Gen. Hifter and his loyalists. The unit is the only real state force in Benghazi, Libya's second largest city, where it has been fighting militants for months.

"Anyone who hurts the nation will be smashed. We are with the will of the people alongside the National Libyan Army in the battle of dignity," the commander, Wanis Abu Khamada, said in a televised address.

Also, troops at a military air base in the eastern city of Tobruk joined Gen. Hifter's forces, his spokesman Mohammed Hegazi said--the latest in around five air bases to back the general in recent weeks. The claim was quickly challenged by deputy Defense Minister Khaled el-Sherif, who said that the base is still under "legitimate authorities."

"We are the real army of Libya," M. Hegazi told Libya's al-Ahrar TV. "We are waiting for orders...to either seek victory or be killed."

In a sign the violence could worsen, a number of foreign embassies in Tripoli shut down, including those of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Algeria, which also closed its borders with Libya, according to several news reports.

Gen. Hifter was a senior general in Gadhafi's military but defected, living in exile for years in Virginia in the U.S. in the 1980s. He returned during the 2011 uprising against Gadhafi.

The general is aiming to harness widespread public frustration with the weak military, the government's impotence and Islamists' power.

He appears to have the support of one of the country's most powerful militias, from the western Zintan region.

Gen. Hifter also draws strong backing in the eastern part of the country, especially Benghazi, where many demand autonomy from the central government and where anger at Islamists is high. Suspected extremist militias have been killing military and police officials, judges, activists and clerics in the city almost daily for months.

In Benghazi, a lawyer prominent in the city said there is general public backing there for Gen. Hifter because he is seen as a figure who "can rescue them from terrorism."

But the lawyer said he personally worries that after defeating Islamists, Gen. Hifter would become a new Gadhafi.

On Friday, Gen. Hifter's loyalists attacked Islamic extremist militias in Benghazi in fighting that authorities said left 70 dead.

Pro-Hifter militiamen stormed parliament on Sunday. They ransacked the legislature, then withdrew toward Tripoli's airport on the southern edges of the city, clashing with rivals. By Monday morning, fighting had stopped.

Gen. Hifter's camp declared that the legislature was suspended and its powers handed over to a 60-member assembly that was recently elected to write the constitution. The government dismissed the declaration.

The Islamist parties, in turn, are backed by the powerful militia based in the western city of Misrata, which has forces in Tripoli.

One of Libya's many al-Qaida-inspired extremist groups on Monday vowed to fight Gen. Hifter's forces.

"You have entered a battle you will lose," a masked militant, identifying himself as Abu Musab al-Arabi, said in a video posted on militant websites by the Lions of Monotheism.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
