
May 19, 2014, 10 p.m.

TO THINK Melbourne could be home to almost 8 million people by 2051 puts into sharp focus the need for governments to invest back into our communities.

TO THINK Melbourne could be home to almost 8 million people by 2051 puts into sharp focus the need for governments to invest back into our communities.

Plan Melbourne, launched by Premier Denis Napthine,  has defined five metropolitan sub-regions, with the southern and northern areas to absorb the biggest growth.

Twenty-minute neighbourhoods are also part of the vision unveiled in the blueprint, where people can reach services and facilities within a 20-minute time limit.

The plan guides growth to the year 2050, when the city’s population is forecast to hit 7.7 million.

What it means for regional Victoria is also significant.

Successive state governments have encouraged population growth in regional Victoria, particularly around the major centres of Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong and Latrobe Valley.

The balance of affordable housing and access to vital services such as hospitals and schools make cities such as Ballarat more attractive than many metropolitan areas.

The final piece in the puzzle is, of course, job opportunities. It’s a major theme heading into this year’s state election with a series of negative announcements – particularly in Geelong in recent months.

The situation in Ballarat is much different, with funds announced in the state and federal budgets to kickstart the Ballarat West Employment Zone project.

This precinct could potentially generate thousands of jobs, making Ballarat a more attractive alternative for people seeking employment security.

With a myriad of projects promised or already funded in the metropolitan area to sustain the expected population growth, it’s also important that regional areas are supported to sustain the flow-on transition.

It’s a great problem to have that people want to make Victoria home. Ballarat, as a city just over an hour from the Melbourne CBD by car or rail, can sell itself as having the best of both worlds.

Let’s hope that as the government has identified the clear need to invest in infrastructure in Melbourne it also sees the continuing value of supporting communities and services that are the pride of regional Victoria.
