
A bill intended to keep criminals from stealing your home did not get enough support from Missouri lawmakers.

A Kansas City lawmaker has filed a bill that would require fingerprinting of property sellers and notaries in an effort to prevent real estate fraud.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. - A bill intended to keep criminals from stealing homes did not get enough support from Missouri lawmakers before the legislative session wrapped up on Friday.

The legislation would have required people to leave behind a thumbprint when getting real estate documents notarized.

Further reporting revealed how the crime is surprisingly easy to pull off and how few checks and balances exist in the deed-filing process to stop it from happening.

The sponsor of the bill, Rep. Gail McCann Beatty, told 41 Action News the fingerprinting idea ran into some opposition after being voted out of committee.

The thumbprint law is used in two other states: Illinois and California (where it’s been on the books since 1996).

The idea is supported by the National Notary Association. The organization’s vice president of legislative affairs, Bill Anderson, told 41 Action News it’s important for lawmakers to consider provisions that would keep a notary’s journal secure.

“There’s no doubt that privacy concerns are present, but the benefit of having a trail of evidence shouldn’t be dismissed,” Anderson said.

Anderson said the thumbprint can be a valuable crime-fighting tool against real estate fraud, and added that it was even a key piece of evidence linking a suspect to a murder case.

Meantime, Rep. TJ Berry also told 41 Action News he will work to gather support over the summer for a different bill intended to combat deed forgeries.

Berry, who dealt with his own deed headache several years ago, said the hurdle is educating other lawmakers why it is a problem. Victims often have to spend thousands of dollars in legal fees to fix a fraudulent housing document.

“It’s not a disaster until you’re living it,” Berry said.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
