
JAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje's cabinet expansion might give a miss to  senior BJP legislator  Pratap Singh Singhvi with the Lokayukta having indicted him. Singhvi has been found guilty by the Lokayukta in an allotment of a Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) property to Suryakanta Vyas, senior BJP legislator from Soorsagar in Jodhpur. The Lokayukta has sent a copy of its report to Raje and asked her to keep in mind before entrusting Singhvi with any important responsibility.

The preliminary inquiry report of Lokayukta had concluded gross irregularity in allotment of a RHB property in the name of Vyas. Vyas was wrongfully allotted house No. 17E-757 in 2007, the residential property in Jodhpur, which was officially reserved for Housing Board commissioner. By a conspiracy, Vyas was granted 50% rebate on the total cost of Rs 33,11,631 of which she had to pay only Rs 17,51,003 causing a loss to the state exchequer. Besides, her original allotment was changed from one-time cash payment to hire purchase system. Report was submitted in January this year.

For the past few days, the grapevine has been doing the rounds of Singhvi, the legislator from Chhabra in Jhalawar constituency, finding a place in the cabinet expansion once again as the UDH minister. The Lokayukta report has indicted Singhvi, then minister in charge UDH, of taking an arbitrary decision by forcing his subordinate to issue the allotment letter of a house to Vyas in 2007. The said letter was issued even before the agenda note and minutes of the constitution of the committee were approved and then forcing the high level committee to post ipso-facto endorse the decision.

Besides, Singhvi has been found guilty of mis-interpretation of Section 60 of the Rajasthan Housing Board Act, 1970. The Lokayukta found that he issued a personal order in the garb of government order without examining its legal and moral implications. Singhvi has also been found guilty of flouting the rule 10(d) and 31(1)(ii) of the Rajasthan Rules of Business and causing a loss of Rs16,43,900 to the state exchequer. The copy of the lokayukta order has also been sent to Raje.
