
Participate in Share Chat.

Cairo (Alliance News) - Libya's interim government condemned the use of force "to express political views" after a day of fighting in which the country's parliament came under attack, the official Lana news agency reported on Monday.

The government called for "an immediate end to the use of the military arsenal, the property of the Libyan people, in fighting to express political views," Lana said.

The statement came hours after a senior military commander announced that the General National Congress, the country's interim parliament, had been suspended and an elected commission tasked with writing the constitution would temporarily hold legislative power.

"The Libyan people will not accept that their country will become a hub for terrorism and extremists," Colonel Mokhtar Fernana, chief of the military police, said in a televised statement.

The government statement made no reference to Fernana's statement, but said Sunday's fighting in the capital, in which two people were killed and over 50 injured, "bore no signs of any link" with clashes in Benghazi where forces loyal to retired colonel Khalifa Haftar on Friday launched a campaign against Islamist militias.

A spokesman for Haftar on Sunday told DPA from Zintan in western Libya that those who stormed the parliament were loyal to the dissident officer, who claims to be acting in the name of the "Libyan National Army."

Benghazi, birthplace of the 2011 uprising against the regime of Moamer Gaddafi, has seen frequent attacks by armed groups - thought to be mainly radical Islamists - on security forces and foreign interests.

Since Gaddafi was toppled and killed in October 2011, Libya's rulers have struggled to assert authority and re-establish security in the North African country, which is still awash with weapons and militias.

The two most powerful groups of militias are those from the western towns of Zintan and Misrata.

The Zintan militias are loosely aligned with the secular-leaning Alliance of National Forces, while the Misrata militias are closer to the Islamist tendency that dominates Congress.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
