
Rocky View County (RVC) council agreed to provide staff with more time to complete a report on the possibility of implementing a Localization Tax for Cochrane Lakes.

The report was the result of a Notice of Motion submitted by Area Councillor Bruce Kendall on April 22.

“This issue has been circulating for three years with no solution,” Kendall said.

Between 2011 and 2012, the County diverted 332,510 cubic metres of water into Cochrane’s Horse Creek because water levels in the lake were exceeding the maximum limit set out in a licensing agreement in 2004. The pumping cost was $250,000.

In 2013, Environment and Sustainable Resources Development began the pumping program again.

As of June 10, 2013, the lake was lowered about seven inches after pumping 481,145 cubic metres into Horse Creek.

RVC council began the public consultation process to see if residents would be in favour of the improvement tax in September 2013 to help cover the cost of the project.

Administration explained to council that it believes the possibility of a combination of a Localization Tax and Development Levies would be the best solution to the problem.

“A tax on the entire project is probably not the best way to do it,” said Ken Robinson general manager of corporate services.

In order to mitigate the damages due to high water levels, a permanent lake level management system will be required with an estimated cost of $1.5 million, according to Robinson.

The report will come back to council at a later date, the exact date was not known as of press time.

The Bearspaw Historical Society received a six-month extension on their 2012 Community Recreation Capital Grant on May 13.

On June 26, 2012, council approved the Bearspaw Historical Society’s request for Community Recreation Capital Grant Funds, representing 30 per cent of $30,000. The total project cost is estimated at $101,480.

RVC council approved funding of $16,5000 to the Springbank Heritage Club (SHC) to be used for washroom upgrades on May 13.

The SHC has managed and operated the Heritage Club facility since 1985, and due to the age of the building renovations were needed.

The men’s washroom renovation is estimated to cost $16,000 and the women’s washroom renovation is expected to cost $17,000.

RVC has agreed to fund half of the project’s total of $33,000.

RVC council approved funding on May 13 in the amount of $46,750 to the Bragg Creek Community Association for geotechnical studies to be performed on the existing site to determine whether a new site can be constructed.

The geotechnical studies are required by RVC for any future planning, and is expected to address information relating to flood mitigation.

The $46,750 is a matching grant with the Bragg Creek community Association.

Rocky View Schools (RVS) notified RVC on April 4 that it would be releasing $550,000 from their section of the public reserve and council approved the release on May 13.

The funds will be used to pay for two upgrade projects on the Elizabeth Barrett Elementary School in Cochrane and the Prince of Peace School in Chestermere.

Two hundred and seventy five thousand dollars will be spent on attaching four freestanding modular units to the two new modular units at Elizabeth Barrett School.

The Prince of Prince School will receive $270,000 to assist the relocation of two modular classrooms and the connecting link to add two classrooms.

The Rocky View Weekly welcomes your opinions and comments. We do not allow personal attacks, offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations. We reserve the right to delete comments deemed inappropriate. We reserve the right to close the comments thread for stories that are deemed especially sensitive. For further information, please contact the editor or publisher.

All comments are moderated, and if approved could take up to 48 hours to appear on the website.
