
Voters must decide for themselves whether the UK Independence Party is racist,    David Cameron has suggested.

The Prime Minister said that he will “leave others to judge” if Nigel Farage’s    party is racist.

His comments come just days before the European elections, in which Ukip is    predicted to beat the Conservatives and come as Mr Farage was left battling    to deflect claims of racism levelled at him and his party.

Mr Farage was last week embarrassed during a combative radio interview during    which he was called a “divisive racist”.

The Ukip leader was heavily criticised for comments he made during the    interview about why people should feel “uncomfortable” if Romanian    immigrants move in next door.

Mr Farage on Sunday said that he regretted the comments and blamed them on the    fact that he was “tired”.

Speaking during a campaign visit, Mr Cameron described Mr Farage’s comments as “pretty unpleasant”.

He refused to comment on whether he believes the Ukip leader is a racist but    suggested that voters need to decide if they believe that accusation to be    true.

The Prime Minister said he felt Ukip's support reflected a very difficult    period in Britain after a long recession.

He said: "Families suffered from that, it is taking time to recover, and    people want answers, people want action.

"I share and understand their frustration but I hope that whatever happens in    these European election results we can focus on the things that will make a    difference to make a success for our country and a success for hard-working    people."

Mr Cameron said he had a viable strategy for securing reform in Europe,    insisting because the eurozone needed reform he could also secure the    changes he wanted ahead of a pledged referendum in 2017.

The Prime Minister said he continued to believe Britain's interest was in    staying in a reformed European Union.

And he defended immigration policy against challenges it was no longer    possible to reduce net immigration to the tens of thousands.

Mr Cameron said: "When it comes to migration from outside the European Union,    we have cut that by a third, that's down to its lowest level since 1998.

"If what you're saying is immigration policy on its own isn't enough, you need    a welfare policy so it pays people to work and not to stay idle, you need an    education policy so you're training people to do the jobs that are being    made available, absolutely, I agree.
