
The Indonesian national government has positioned itself to rebuild the nation’s education and learning arena after expecting a significant boost in both web-based and brick-and-mortar college student enrollment. Close to one-third of Indonesian population is below fifteen years old, with many living in remote areas where only minimum education infrastructures are available. At the same time, the ever-increasing competition for employment has compelled many workers to pursue further education to upgrade their qualification. It is not surprising that higher-education organizations are now intensifying their energies to draw web-based learners into their programs.

Investment in Indonesia’s education arena seemed to have taken a significant step forward after the passing of the Higher Education Act in 2012. Right now, the nation’s education and learning sectors enjoy more state budgetary funding than any other public sector, claiming a total of close to US$35 billion in 2013 .

The government is also willing to set aside twenty-percent of college seats at public universities for poverty-stricken students; and it’s making sure that schools are offering more e-learning programs within the Indonesian education system.

Online education is rapidly turning into a major trend all over the world. The comfort and convenience of online education attract folks who live just about anywhere, particularly those who are striving to balance work, children, and other responsibilities. The surge in excitement has partly come from monetary considerations, as many Indonesians simply cannot afford to take the years off from work to enroll in a regular university.

For these reasons, it is not surprising that Indonesia has welcomed web-based education with open hands, constantly making progress both in terms of the quantity and selection of courses and in the fresh uniqueness of the learning platforms.

Within the past couple of years, Indonesia has invested in countless web-based learning systems, deriving from its prominent universities and colleges. Internet-based ranking sites and search engines like Degree Jungle are available to assist Indonesian learners in choosing the most suitable online programs for them.

IPMI Business School : devoted to deliver excellent business management education and research online. The school offers undergraduate, graduate, and MBA degrees, as well as a number of professional certification programs. The office can be found in Kalibata in Pancoran, South Jakarta.

PPSP Universitas Indonesia : a well-known web-based accredited institution that offers undergraduate and MBA degrees.

The University of Roehampton : provides one-hundred-percent web-based MBA and master’s degree programs in partnership with Laureate Online Education.

Corllins University : delivers accredited Associate, Bachelors, Masters, PhD and Certificate programs over the web.

Glion Institute of Higher Education : offers an accredited online MBA in International Hospitality and Service Industries Management degree.

INTI College Indonesia : provides free college-prep, e-learning platforms for prospective undergraduates.
