
We have a slew of cases around prisoners’ rights that emphasise their right to dignity and their right against cruel and degrading punishment, which have been understood to violate the right to life, guaranteed by Article 21 of the Indian Constitution. In complying with the standards set out in constitutional jurisprudence on this matter, the offence for which the person has been apprehended or convicted is immaterial. The standard is clear. No person shall be subjected to degrading, inhuman or cruel punishment that is violative of human dignity; the duty of care to be exercised in this matter during pre-trial custody is of a much higher order. These are standards applicable to all custodial situations and to all persons, irrespective of caste, sex, race, religion, or place of birth.

The Veena Sethi case in the early 1980s brought to light the treatment of prisoners with mental illnesses and their prolonged incarceration for periods ranging from 16 to 30 years in custody. This is far in excess of sentences given to them in most of these cases, without bringing them any substantive relief beyond release from illegal custody and transport and food expenses till they reached home. That was long before there was a consciousness or political articulation of the rights of persons with disabilities, which, importantly today, includes civil and political rights for prisoners with disabilities.

The norm of substantive equality, well established through constitutional jurisprudence in India, speaks of the principle of equality that necessarily includes special treatment for persons who are vulnerable. The denial of special provisions, appropriate assistance and specialised health care access to a person with disabilities in custody, who uses a wheelchair and has special health care needs arising from chronic illness, comes firmly within the meaning of degrading, inhuman and cruel treatment in derogation of the state’s obligation under the UNCRPD.

The Rights of Persons with Disabilities legislation that ought to set out these standards in clear and unequivocal terms has been ever in the making in India. The absence of specific legislation, however, need not deter us from the path of justice. Article 14 of the Constitution that sets out the substantive right to equality before law, and Article 21 that sets out the framework for the right to life (with dignity) — as it specifically applies to prisoners — should at this time be read with the UNCRPD which India has ratified. This is till the time that we put in place policies and national legislation that mandatorily provide for special services and basic needs that prisoners with disabilities might require, and prioritise the conditional and compassionate release of prisoners with high support needs.

Recognising the vulnerability of women in custodial situations, the Criminal Procedure Code (CPC) provides very different standards for their involvement in criminal investigation. There are also special standards for the treatment of women prisoners and pregnant women in custody. The demand for treatment that is sensitive to the rights of persons with disabilities to dignity and physical integrity and to their specific needs is therefore not unprecedented. Where prison and custodial facilities are not equipped at all to deal with the specific needs of persons with disabilities, arrest and detention in custody should be a measure of last resort, clearly not the case where Dr. Saibaba is concerned. The investigating authorities must release him from custody forthwith and carry out any investigations they may require, without infringing on his right to human dignity and fundamental freedoms, and in full compliance with the CPC, the Constitution and the UNCRPD.
