
Sorry, but your browser needs Javascript to use this site.

The government said Monday it will hold talks with North Korea next week in Sweden in hopes of speeding up discussions on the abduction issue.

Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida told reporters in Tokyo that the government-level talks will be held from May 26 to 28 in Stockholm. The meeting will follow the two countries’ first talks in 16 months in March, and address a range of issues, including the abduction issue and North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.

While relations with South Korea continue to be testy, Pyongyang’s approach to its dealings with Japan appears to have softened in recent months, especially on the emotive issue of the abductions.

North Korea outraged Japan when it admitted more than a decade ago that it had kidnapped 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train its spies on how to speak Japanese and follow Japanese customs.

Five of the abductees were allowed to return to Japan, but Pyongyang has insisted, without producing solid evidence, that the eight others are dead.

During the March meeting, the Japanese side also protested the communist state’s launch of ballistic missiles and its threat to conduct more nuclear tests.

Pyongyang, for its part, renewed its demand that Tokyo compensate Koreans for their suffering during Japan’s 1910-1945 colonial rule over the Korean Peninsula.

Formal ties with Japan could bring huge economic benefits to the impoverished state, which is already struggling under a range of Japanese sanctions.

Do you realize you really can make $5000 per week trading? I would have never believed it until I saw it for myself or I started doing it. And that’s exactly what happened to me because now I’m making that much money. You just need to know the right place to learn and where I went to is a website called Gold Trading Academy, you should be able to find them on Google or just search for them. Their support is the best .I’ve ever seen on any website before and they helped me to learn to trade, and it was nowhere near as hard as I thought it would be.
