
Andrei studied finance at the Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies and worked for almost ten years for Ziarul Financiar, the main financial newspaper in Romania. For the last six years he was editor of the capital markets section in Ziarul Financiar. He joined the Romania-Insider.com team in May 2014 as a senior editor and partner. Besides capital markets he is also interested in trends in economy, banking and politics. He is passionate about sports, movies and literature, especially crime fiction and political intrigues (Game of Thrones). He would like to live in the countryside one day, groom a vineyard and write his own literature. Email him for interviews, conferences and story pitches at andrei@romania-insider.com.

Romanian farmers will get more EU non-refundable funding this year. The Romanian Agriculture and Rural Development Ministry (MADR) will allocate another EUR 150 million European funds this summer to support investments by local farmers, under the 121 Measure which is part of the National Program for Rural Development.

The farmers interested in getting non-refundable EU financing can submit their applications from May 20 to July 18, according to an announcement from the ministry’s payment agency (APDRP).

Of the total EUR 150 million funding, EUR 35 million is for family farms and the remaining EUR 115 million is for large farms. The maximum financing for a single family farm is EUR 125.000. For large farms, the maximum financing goes as high as EUR 2 million for construction related to animal farms, and EUR 1 million for construction related to plant cultivation.

The non-refundable financing will be 40 percent of the total investment, but the percentage can go higher for young farmers of for farms located in underprivileged regions.

Romania attracted EUR 5.4 billion in EU funds for agriculture, from 2008 to 2013, out of the EUR 8.1 billion allocated by the EU for Romania for the same period. For the period 2014-2020 Romania will be assigned another EUR 8.015 billion.

No related posts.

Want to be up to speed with what's happening in Romania? We'll send your first batch of news for the day directly to your inbox.

Go mobile with our partner City Compass ' mobile app exclusively in English - places, events - everything you need to discover Romania at your fingertips. iOS and Android version.
