
Planet Mitsubishi is one of the top 40 Mitsubishi dealerships in the United States, and has been named a Diamond Chapter of Excellence dealership.

We strive every day to provide the very best experience.

Planet Mitsubishi is one of the top 40 Mitsubishi dealerships in the United States, and has been named a Diamond Chapter of Excellence dealership.

The dealership participated in the Diamond Chapter of Excellence (DCE) Program from April 2, 2013 to March 31, 2014. Mitsubishi dealers that demonstrated overall excellence in sales and customer satisfaction, as measured by the Dealer Scorecard, received the company’s highest honor.

Helmi Felfel, owner and president of Planet Mitsubishi and its parent company, Planet Automotive Group, along with his partner, co-owner/principal Jeff Tomascak, praised the hard work and customer service of Planet Mitsubishi’s entire team.

As a Diamond Chapter of Excellence designee, Planet Mitsubishi will receive a custom DCE showroom crystal museum piece to display, as well as dealership recognition in Automotive News and DCE recognition on the mitsubishicars.com dealer locator.

The DCE recognition marks yet another accolade in what has been a stellar 2014 for Planet Mitsubishi so far.

Planet Mitsubishi was named the No. 1 Mitsubishi dealership in the Eastern District for both February and March.

The dealership shattered the Eastern District’s sales record in March, selling 104 new Mitsubishi’s in one month.

And Felfel and Tomascak, on behalf of Planet Mitsubishi and Planet Automotive Group, donated $3,000 to the Make-A-Wish Foundation of Central and Western North Carolina.

About Planet Automotive Group: Planet Automotive Group is a premier automotive dealer in the Charlotte area. At Planet Automotive Group, we make buying a quality used cars easy, we have a knowledgeable friendly sales staff and attractive financing options. Planet Automotive Group is proud to be the best solution for all of your car buying needs. At Planet Automotive Group, we strive to always deliver a superior buying experience and customer service is our number one concern. Planet Automotive Group wishes to earn your business for life. We know the only way to do that is to prove to you how important you are to us as a customer. Please come in and let us show you.

It’s just another reason why Planet Automotive Group is the best place on the planet to buy a car, and why its customers Drive Planet for Life!
