
The FDA is investigating thousands of cases where dogs, cats, even humans have become ill after eating chicken, duck or sweet potato jerky treats from China.

On Friday, the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) released its  latest update  on the number of  pet illnesses associated with imported pet treats from China . The exact cause of the illnesses is still not known.

Although some companies recalled their imported pet treat products in January 2013 when the New York Department of Agriculture and Markets discovered that they contained antibiotics that were not approved in the U.S., at least one of those companies has resumed importing pet treats from China and is selling them in retail stores and on the internet, according to Food & Water Watch.

“While we appreciate the efforts and resources that FDA has invested in investigating this issue for the past seven years, today’s report proves that pets are still getting sick and dying from consuming Chinese pet treats,” said  Wenonah Hauter , executive director of Food & Water Watch.

In March,  EcoWatch reported  that the USDA will soon allow U.S. chickens to be sent to  China for processing  before being shipped back to the states for human consumption. This arrangement is especially disturbing given China’s subpar food safety record, including imported pet treats, and the fact that there are  no plans to station on-site USDA inspectors  at Chinese plants. Also, American consumers won’t know which brands of chicken are processed in China because there’s no requirement to label it as such.

“Food & Water Watch has repeatedly called on USDA to  stop the equivalency process  that would allow the import of processed poultry products for human consumption from China. This latest report on continuing pet illnesses and deaths is just the latest example of why it is far too soon to allow more dangerous imports into the United States,” said Hauter.

Join the Human Rights Campaign if you believe that everyone has the right to marry the person they love.
