
Dozens of people have already fallen to the flood victims in the Balkans. Now facing a new danger: landmines from the civil war of the nineties are free floated.

Several cities are under water, dozens of people were killed in the floods. The Balkans is fighting against devastating floods. Now the flood landmines from the war in Bosnia rinsed free. Several exploded already.

The Mine Action Centre MAC warns that the explosive could be swept to the Black Sea. Over the river Save the mines could reach the Danube, reports the “Daily Show”, citing experts. This is particularly dangerous for the turbines of hydroelectric power plants.

From the civil war of the nineties are currently some 120,000 landmines in Bosnia-Herzegovina. It often fatal accidents. The areas around the cities of Doboj and Olovo which are now particularly affected by the flood, are still considered heavily mined.

Bosnia – Herzegovina : In Doboj , the water up to four feet tall in places . “The highest priority is on finding the dead ,” said Mayor Petrovic . We need to find out how many people died in the floods , “There will be many dead . ” Among other things, the save is extremely swollen after days of rainfall . After more than two days before rescuers penetrated into the city Samac . ” This is total devastation , it looks from the helicopter like a sea of ​​” Mayor Savo Minic told the news agency Fena . The evacuation is proceeding chaotic.

Serbia : Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic described the situation as catastrophic. More than 4,000 of the 30,000 residents were moved out of the city Obrenovac to safety. In the towns of Sabac , Mitrovica and Kostolac the flood is under control , shared with the emergency services . Belgrade is now before the tidal wave of the Sava . Vucic estimated the financial loss solely by the flooding of the mine of Kolubara , the largest coal mine of Serbia, to 100 million euros , “What happens to us happens only once in a thousand years , not hundreds, but thousands . ” In Obrenovac there is a risk for the power plant Nikola Tesla , which supplies about 50 percent of electricity production in Serbia.

In Bosnia – Herzegovina and Serbia, the danger of landslides increases. Mudslides destroyed on Saturday the village Olovo and made eight major roads impassable . To the west of Serbia landslides destroyed dozens of homes in Krupanj and surrounding villages.

In the Czech Republic the risk of flooding seems for the time being banned. In Spindleruv Mlyn Giant Mountains in the water levels gradually declining . Here, the high alert had been declared on the Elbe.

Poland : Even in the southern Polish flood areas the situation improved on the Vistula River and its tributaries . ” The situation is stabilizing ,” said a spokesman for the fire brigade to the news agency PAP.

Note: Your comment will be viewable after approval.

Balkans, Balkans Flood, Balkans Flood Victims, Balkans News, Bosnia Herzegovina Flood, Breaking Balkans News, Breaking Blakns Flood News, Flood Balkans News, Flood Drives Landmines Balkans, Flood In Balkans, Serbia Flood,
