
THE Libyan capital remained tense on Monday, a day after  forces  loyal to a renegade general stormed the parliament and said they   suspended the house, challenging the legitimacy of the country's weak  central  government, three years after the overthrow of dictator Moammar  Gadhafi.

Libya's leadership condemned Sunday's brazen attack in which  two  people reportedly died and more than 50 were wounded, and vowed to carry  on.

The attack saw militia members backed by truck-mounted  anti-aircraft  guns, mortars and rocket fire raid the parliament building in the   heart of Tripoli, sending lawmakers fleeing for their lives as gunmen  ransacked  the legislature.

Hours later, a commander in the military police in Libya  read a  statement announcing the suspension of parliament on behalf of a group   led by Gen. Khalifa Hifter, a one-time rebel commander who said the U.S.  had  backed his efforts to topple Gadhafi in the 1990s.

Mokhtar Farnana, speaking on a Libyan television channel on  behalf  of Hifter's group, said it assigned a 60-member constituent's assembly   to take over for parliament. Farnana said Libya's current government  would act  on as an emergency Cabinet, without elaborating.

Farnana, who is in charge of prisons operated by the  military  police, said forces loyal to Hifter carried out Sunday's attack,   insisting it was not a coup, but a battle by "the people's choice."

"We announce to the world that the country can't be a  breeding  ground or an incubator for terrorism," said Farnana, who wore a   military uniform and sat in front of Libya's flag.

Libya's interim government condemned the attack on  parliament in a  statement issued shortly after midnight Sunday, and largely  ignored the  declaration by the general's group.

"The government condemns the expression of political  opinion through  the use of armed force," Libyan Justice Minister Salah  al-Marghani  said in a statement. "It calls for an immediate end of the use  the  military arsenal ... and calls on all sides to resort to dialogue and   reconciliation."

Militias that backed the country's interim government manned   checkpoints around the capital late Sunday. Hifter's forces in Tripoli  appeared  concentrated around the road to the city's airport and its  southern outskirts.

By Monday morning, gunfire along the capital's airport  highway had died down and a tentative calm returned to the city.

Authorities seemed determined to convey a message of   business-as-usual. Libyan news agency LANA cited the Ministry of  Education as  denying that high school end-of-term exams were suspended.  The ministry urged  students to go to school as normal.

The attack on parliament followed an assault Friday by  Hifter's  forces on Islamist militias in the restive eastern city of Benghazi,   which authorities said killed 70 people.

Sunday's attack in Tripoli targeted the Islamist lawmakers  and  officials Hifter blames for allowing extremists to hold the country to  ransom,  his spokesman Mohammed al-Hegazi told Libyan television station  al-Ahrar.

"This parliament is what supports these extremist  Islamist  entities," al-Hegazi said. "The aim was to arrest these  Islamist bodies  who wear the cloak of politics."

Libyan officials believe members of the al-Qaaqaa and Sawaaq   militias — the largest in Tripoli — backed Hifter, even though they  operate  under a government mandate.

Since Gadhafi's overthrow, Libya's army and police have  relied on  the country's myriad of militias, the heavily armed groups formed   around ethnic identity, hometowns and religion that emerged from the  rebel  factions that toppled Gadhafi.

Bringing the militias under control has been one of the  greatest  challenges for Libya's successive interim governments, one they  largely  failed at as militias have seized oil terminals and even kidnapped a   former prime minister, seemingly at will.

An official with the Libyan Revolution Operation Room, an  umbrella  group of militias groups in charge of security in the capital, said  the  gunmen in Sunday's attack "kidnapped" some 20 lawmakers and  government  officials. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he  was  not authorized to talk to media.

However, the abduction of the 20 could not immediately be  confirmed  and LANA made no mention of the officials being seized. The attackers   left the parliament building after they ransacked it in the assault.

Libya's legislature is divided between Islamist and  non-Islamist  factions, with rival militias lining up behind them. Recently,   Islamists backed the naming of a new prime minister amid walkouts from   non-Islamists, who said the new government would be illegitimate.

It's not clear which militias and political leaders support  Hifter,  but his offensive taps into a wider disenchantment among Libyans with   its virtually powerless government.
