
Australians have been warned to avoid all demonstrations and large-scale gatherings in Thailand and to monitor developments that might affect their safety after Thailand's army declared martial law before dawn on Tuesday.

The surprise announcement in Bangkok intensifies the turbulent nation's deepening political crisis. The military, however, deny a coup d'etat is underway.

Troops are patrolling the streets of Bangkok and Thai army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha appeared on all Thailand's TV channels in the middle of the night to order police off the streets of the nation's capital.

The army said in a statement that the military had taken the action to 'keep peace and order' and soldiers entered several private television stations in the capital.

The military statement was signed by army chief Gen. Prayuth Chan-Ocha. It cited a 1914 law that gives it authority to intervene during times of crisis, and said it had taken the action because on-going mass rallies between political rivals 'could impact the country's security and safety of the lives and properties of the public.'

The move came after a six-month political stalemate, which has involved widespread anti-government demonstrations.

Analysts have warned Thailand is on the brink of civil war and 28 people have been killed in clashes across the country.

Thailand has been without a sitting parliament since December last year, when then-premier Yingluck Shinawatra refused to bow to pressure to step down but called an election for February in an attempt to ease unrest.

The February elections were sabotaged by the anti-government People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC), led by Suthep Thaugsuban.

Election officials were unable to schedule a new poll before Yingluck was removed on May 7, after a court found her and nine of her ministers guilty of abuse of power.

Thailand's acting prime minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan insisted on Monday that his government will not resign, resisting pressure from a group of senators who are seeking ways to settle the country's political crisis, and from anti-government protesters who are demanding an appointed prime minister.

A statement on the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website posted on Tuesday warns tourists: 'We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution in Thailand due to the possibility of civil unrest and the threat of terrorist attack. You should pay close attention to your personal security at all times.'

A spokesman for DFAT said the department understands the country's caretaker government is still in office.

'We are following these events closely and encourage all parties to resolve their political differences through peaceful democratic processes,' he said.

'The Department will continue to assess the implications of this development for Australian travellers and will update the travel advice accordingly.'

Do not travel warnings have been issued for the southern provinces of Yala, Pattani, Narathiwat and Songkhla.

A group of about 70 senators, most of whom are seen as siding with the anti-government protesters, proposed a framework on Friday that calls for a government with full power to conduct political reforms.

Acting Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan and Justice Minister Chaikasem Nitisiri met with two representatives of the Senate in an undisclosed location Monday to avoid disruption from the protesters.

In a statement following the meeting, Niwattumrong said the Cabinet cannot resign because 'it will be negligence of duty and against the constitution,' and insisted he 'can carry out duties and has full authority' as prime minister.

The Cabinet has operated in a caretaker capacity with limited power since Yingluck dissolved the lower house in December in a failed bid to ease the political crisis.

A new government cannot normally be named until there are elections, which anti-government demonstrators have vowed to block unless political reforms occur first.

The Senate, the only functioning legislative body in the country, was seen as the last resort of the anti-government protesters, who are calling for an interim, unelected prime minister to be chosen.

Earlier this month, the Constitutional Court removed Yingluck for nepotism along with nine Cabinet members in a case that many viewed as politically motivated.

Protesters said her removal is not enough because she was replaced by an acting prime minister from the ruling party, Niwattumrong.

Anti-government protesters say they are making their final push to oust the government and install an unelected prime minister and government.

They have promised to call off their rallies if they are not successful by May 26, following six months of street demonstrations in which 28 people have died and hundreds of others have been injured.

The protesters on Monday began searching for members of the Cabinet at their residences to pressure them to resign, but did not find any.

Labor unions representing about 20 state-owned enterprises vowed to go on strike Thursday to support the anti-government protesters, although several companies, including Thai Airways and the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, said Monday that they would operate normally.

Thailand's political crisis began in 2006, when Yingluck's brother, former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, was toppled by a military coup after being accused of corruption, abuse of power and disrespect for King Bhumibol Adulyadej.

Thaksin, a former telecommunications billionaire, remains highly popular among the poor in the north and northeast, and parties controlled by him have won every national election since 2001.

The anti-government protesters, who are aligned with the opposition Democrat Party and backed by the country's traditional elites, say they want to remove all traces of his political machine from politics.

Thaksin's supporters, known as the Red Shirts, have staged a rally in Bangkok's western outskirts since May 10, raising concerns about possible clashes between them and the anti-government protesters.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
