
Kenya: MPs on Monday asked security chiefs to reveal the details of the Sh12.3 billion deal that was awarded to Safaricom for surveillance and communication equipment.

The lawmakers sought assurances from Interior co-ordination Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku, his Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo and the Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo that the deal between the Government and Kenya’s largest mobile service provider, Safaricom, was above-board.

The Parliamentary Committee on Administration and National Security said the questions about the procurement of the multibillion project have to be addressed before it is implemented.

The committee told Lenku, Iringo and Kimaiyo, plus other senior officers in the Interior docket that they want all queries answered, so that the matter does not get stuck in court the same way the previous exercise was stuck in court in a tussle between two Chinese companies Huawei and ZTE.

“Are you sure we are on the safe side? If it is an issue of single sourcing, people are going to raise issues. Or else we are going to be embroiled in the same issues that have been in court for the last two years. We need these surveillance equipment like yesterday,” said the committee chairman Asman Kamama.

Video surveillance (CCTV), digital radios, video conferencing system, central command for the communication system and mapping system, are part of the infrastructure that will be provided to help keep Kenyans safe. It will first be implemented in Nairobi and Mombasa.

Lenku told the MPs that the surveillance and communication equipment will also be installed in remote areas to help curb cattle-rustling.

The Cabinet Secretary said Safaricom had agreed to install 15 communication towers in Turkana, eight in West Pokot and a yet to be determined number in Samburu to help in communication and surveillance of cattle rustlers.

He also told MPs that the Kenya Police Reservists will also be equipped to help deal with the menace.
