
NAIROBI, May 19 (Xinhua) -- The Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD), east Africa's regional bloc, on Monday adjourned peace talks aimed at ending five months of conflict in South Sudan.

A statement from the IGAD's special envoys said the negotiations will be adjourned for 12 days and urged the warring parties to respect the cease-fire agreement which was signed in Addis Ababa on May 9.

The third session of second phase of the talks adjourned amid extremely serious security situation in South Sudan as more than 1 million people have fled their homes and almost 300,000 of them are refugees in neighboring countries.

Four million people are in need of food, and this figure, the UN has warned, will increase dramatically unless extensive emergency relief is made available. Only 30 percent of the required humanitarian aid has been pledged so far.

"During the recess, the IGAD special envoys will undertake shuttle mission to South Sudan to consult with different stakeholders. The next phase of the mediation process shall commence on the June 4," the statement said.

During the mediation phase, President Salva Kiir met his rival Riek Machar and signed the landmark agreement to end the conflict in South Sudan.

The meeting, which was facilitated by Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Dessalegn who is also the Chairperson of the IGAD Assembly, was the first face–to-face meeting between the two principals since the outbreak of the conflict in South Sudan on Dec. 15, 2013.

The agreement contains a commitment to an immediate cessation of hostilities within 24 hours of the signing and a rededication to the cessation of hostilities agreement that was signed in January in Addis Ababa.

The two leaders have also committed to freeze forces in their current locations and refrain from any provocative action or combat movement until a permanent cease-fire is agreed.

The two leaders committed to unconditionally cooperate with the full operationalization of the IGAD Monitoring and Verification Mechanism (MVM) as well as to facilitate unhindered humanitarian access to all populations affected by the conflict.

Both Kiir and Machar agreed to work together to move the country forward by establishing a transitional government of national unity through an all inclusive peace process that will include the two direct negotiators from both the government and the opposition as well as the SPLM leaders, political parties, civil society and faith-based leaders.

According to IGAD, the transitional government of national unity will be tasked to oversee government functions during a transitional period; implement critical reforms as negotiated through the peace process; oversee a permanent constitutional process and guide the country to new elections.

The terms of the transitional government will be negotiated through the IGAD-led peace process. The two leaders will also be holding a follow-up meeting in one month under the auspices of IGAD.

The agreement represents a breakthrough in the ongoing IGAD-led mediation process and it is expected to invigorate and expedite the negotiations in Addis Ababa.

"The agreement has favorably changed the landscape of the negotiation into a more inclusive, representative and forward looking process," IGAD special envoys said.

The parties in conflict also signed a recommitment on the humanitarian matters in the cessation of hostilities agreement on May 5.

The warring parties established two working committees, namely Security Arrangements and Humanitarian Affairs Committee and Political Committee.

"These committees have produced working documents on implementation modalities matrix for the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement and the Framework for the Political Negotiations towards a Settlement of the Crisis in South Sudan respectively which is work in progress," the envoys said.
