
TACLOBAN CITY, Leyte, May 16 (PIA) – The Welcome Back to Learning in a Safe School campaign in Eastern Visayas will kick off with Community Parades in Tacloban City and in Dulag, Leyte on May 21, 2014.

In Tacloban City, the Community Parade will start at the City Hall Grounds at 7:00 o’clock in the morning and will proceed to Kapangian Central School while that of Dulag will start at 9:00 o’clock in the morning from the Dulag town proper towards Dulag South Central School.

The launching program at Tacloban City will be graced by USEC. Mario Deriquito, Undersecretary for Partnerships andExternal Linkages, Department ofEducation (DepEd) who will deliver a message.

One of the highlights of the launching program is the Pledge of Commitment to Support Back to Learning by the representatives from DepEd, partners and other stakeholders such as Parents, Barangay Council and other organizations.

DepEd Region 8 Director Luisa Bautista-Yu will deliver the closing remarks.

Meanwhile, the launching program in Dulag South Central School  which is spearheaded by Save the Children, will start with a welcome message by Mayor Manuel Sia Que to be followed by the inspirational talk of the DepEd representative and the messages of the Unicef and the Save the Children representatives.

Highlights of the program are the distribution of materials, back to school kits, prizes, among others, and the pledge of commitment by the various stakeholders.

These activities are part of the continuous cooperation among the Department of Education (DepED), the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), UNICEF, education sector partners and local government units, in order to ensure that all children, including those children affected by Typhoon Yolanda can fully resume schooling in June 2014.

The campaign will take a bottom-up multi-stakeholder approach to mobilize collective action for Back to Learning Campaign via various approaches and strategies to reach all children, including the most marginalized ones and to facilitate enabling child-friendly learning environment.  It is to be noted that the concept note for the campaign was built upon existing programs and activities of DepED and DSWD.
