
Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammed Abubakar, on Sunday ordered tightened security in all boarding schools in and around Makurdi, the Benue State capital.

A statement issued by the Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Frank Mba, in Abuja, said the order follows a recent threat letter, purportedly issued by elements claiming to be Boko Haram members to two all-boys secondary schools, Government College and Mount St. Gabriel College, Makurdi.

“Consequently, Benue State Police Command, working in conjunction with the State Ministry of Education and the affected school authorities, has strengthened surveillance in the schools and other boarding schools within Makurdi metropolis,” the statement said.

It said that the police had begun investigations to determine the “authenticity or otherwise of the hand-written letter (threat) now in possession of the force”.

The statement advised residents of communities where boarding schools were located to “remain perpetually on the alert and report any suspicious movement to the appropriate authorities”.

Recall that the Principal of Government College, Makurdi, Mr Godfrey Ugudu, had on Saturday said that the school had received letter from Boko Haram sect threatening to attack the school.

Ugudu, who announced this at a news conference in Makurdi added that the school received two letters which had the same content on May 14.

“It is true that we saw two letters informing us of the intention of the sect to invade our school on Friday or Monday by Boko Haram.

“The letters were dated May 14, 2014, stating that they were coming either of the two days to abduct our boys whom they would marry to the secondary school girls abducted in Chibok.

According to him, “we immediately alerted the police and the Commissioner for Education. A report has been made to the Governor on the issue.

“The two letters, which were written in pidgin English, were sighted inside one of the classrooms and the second one was slipped into the staff room’’, he said.

The principal commended the government and security operatives in the state for their prompt response to the issue.

He said that everything had been done to ensure the safety of the school children, adding that he had informed the Principal of Mount Saint Gabriel.

About 500 out of about 700 students of the college are living in the school while Mount Saint Gabriel is purely a boarding school.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
