
Illinois Governor Pat Quinn speaks after getting the endorsement of the Service Employment International Union (SEIU).

The tense, closed-door meeting sets up the political dynamic for the final two weeks of the spring session: Democrats try to collect 60 votes in the House before the May 31 adjournment to keep the state’s income tax rate at 5 percent, attempt to come up with an alternative, or go home and wait until after the Nov. 4 election to deal with the state’s finances.

Madigan filed legislation Monday that would keep the 2011 income tax hike in place and send homeowners a $500 property tax refund. The personal income tax rate is scheduled to fall to 3.75 percent on Jan. 1. The corporate income tax rate would drop from 7 percent to 5.25 percent.

The House is the toughest obstacle, with each of the 118 lawmakers facing re-election. Senate President John Cullerton, D-Chicago, has predicted he will be able to put on enough votes to pass the proposal in his chamber.

After the meeting, Quinn acknowledged he had yet to hit the 60-vote mark among 71 House Democrats, where many worry that voting for the income tax measure in an election year would create a backlash at the polls.

Madigan hailed Quinn for making a compelling case “for the appropriate funding of education” during the private meeting.

The speaker would not say how many votes needed to be picked up to pass the income tax, however.

Democrats shouldn’t expect to get much Republican help. House Republican leader Jim Durkin of Western Springs said the income tax hike will be key during the fall campaigns, arguing Democrats have broken their trust with Illinoisans by telling citizens the tax increase would last only four years.

Madigan and Quinn both dismissed remarks from Durkin and Republican governor candidate Bruce Rauner, who was critical of Democrats for pushing a tax hike that he says is not needed. Rauner has contended the high taxes are causing businesses and people to leave Illinois.

Monday’s meeting came after House Democrats last week approved a state budget where spending would exceed revenue by an estimated $4 billion if the tax hike is not extended or other money found. For now, the Democrats who run state government are staying on the tax hike path.

“Well, we’re not going to go to Plan B until we find those 60 votes,” Madigan said.
