
Check showtimes to see when Amanpour is on CNN where you are. Or watch online.

Check showtimes to see when Amanpour is on CNN where you are. Or watch online .

The devastating floods in Bosnia and Herzegovina – and throughout the Balkans – are “the worst thing” the country has faced since its deadly civil war two decade ago, President Bakir Izetbegović told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour on Monday.

The cost of the damage will be measure in billions of euros, he told Amanpour.

The flooding has already killed at least two dozen people in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Massive swaths of Croatia are also submerged.

Along with the damage and death caused by floods, many are also concerned about the deadly minefields left in place from the war.

Much of the system of warning signs that kept the country in perilous equilibrium with the mines has also been destroyed.

Izetbegović praised the armed forces’ efforts to rescue the stranded, and said more than 3,000 had been airlifted by helicopter. More than 30,000 people have been displaced, he told Amanpour.

Bosnia’s neighbor, Serbia, has also been affected by the floods; the tensions between the countries have remained high since the ethnic cleansing of the 1990s.

“In this moment, everybody is helping each other, especially on this level of common people,” Izetbegović said.

Croats are helping Bosniacs, Bosniacs are helping Serbs, he said.

No , this is not about the Balkans war, but it is fair to put the recent history into context, look at what the region has done during the past decade and from that understand that there are a lot of people throughout the world who, because of the corruption and arrogance of this region, are not placing this above other tragic situations going on in the world right now. There are ask of lot of us who want the region to put all of it's bragging into action and do something to help themselves rather than standing and demanding money from the rest of the world....which, by the way, they have already started to do.

And climate change makes it steady path of destruction while we humans argue among ourselves.

Yes, Mary, it is sad that we do not pay attention to the worst disaster in the history of the human race. Food prices will continue to climb as the weather gets more and more harsh and unpredictable, causing many more battles, revolts, and wars. And with the dying oceans as well...  it looks very very bad for us all.

I was in Sarajevo on many occasions during the conflict and saw first hand the body parts lying in the streets. It seems that 20 years on this is still the vision some "journalists" seem hell bent on recreating in peoples minds. Also, when you talk about a country you should refer generally to the "people" of that country and not the minority bunch of activists, armed bandits and politicians who were responsible for creating the mess in the first place. Take just the "people" of any race or religion in any country and the majority will happily sit down with those from neighboring countries to trade and cooperate. This though of course is not news and does nothing to support the armament industry and international bankers who now control the world bolstered by politicians with a direct vested interest in their profitability. Show me a Serb carrying a Muslim child through the floods and I will tell you that this same scenario will have been repeated many times by both "sides", but of course the likes of CNN will never publish pictures like this.

UN imposed embargo on weapons sent to Yugoslavian theatre. Armament industry didn't earn anything at least initially. The result of embargo was that the Serbs/Yugoslavia had a fully functioning army that ranked in top 10 in the World at the time while the breakaway republics had only small firearms to fend off the increasingly Serbian and genocidal "federal" army.

I cant see anything wrong with her style of journalism, I thought she covered the disaster unfolding in the Balkans adequately. She said its the worst disaster to hit that part of the world since the Serbs committed ethnic cleansing in the region, which it is. Whats wrong with stating the truth, do we have to deny what happened now? I think some people are being far too sensitive and just attacking this journalist for no reason.

and you have been the witness of the ethnic cleansing??? first read some more sources, not only C.A.'s, and then come here again to give your comment..

I have witnessed the refugees and I have talked to people that got out while their loved ones didn't. I have witnessed my Croatian neighbour break down after TV news showed her familly house burned, charred bodies of her parents and brothers infront of the house (victims of Serbian paramilitaries). I can never forget that yell of despair. I played with a Bosnian Muslim boy my age who had a scar along his head. He told me that he got hit by a shot from a nearby Serbian village while he played in the field. Who shoots a 10 year old kid in the head? After that his family decided to leave the country.

I know survivors of Vukovar and survivors of the siege of Sarajevo and I believe that they speak the truth. So don't go around denying Serbian war crimes.

Alija Izetbegovic was in prison for jihadist ideas before war started in former Yugoslavia. That is the known fact and he wanted jihadist state. You can have it but without Republic Srpska. Time will tell who was right but chances are that Srebrenica was given away by Alija Izetbegovic. He considered them the biggest traitors of his jihad..

@Bosnian I can see that your EDUCATION is based on Google. Spend more time in school. I would recommend you to find definition of RACIST which you called me. It does not make any sense. Do not use words that you do not understand. Because you are so good at researching here. is one word to research KAZANI.

@Nikola Tesla, Google is for the other people, for people who's reading our comments. I don't need this. I speak from my EXPIRIENCE.

Your education is questionable, because, that rouge commander, Mušan Topalović, is the one that is responsible for KAZANI. So, I already mention that, and you tell I should read about it... LOL.

Of course you're racist. You speak about jihad with disgusting, you speak about people of Srebrenica like they are rats...  Something like, well, we killed them, so Bosnian's didn't have to... Why? Because of muslim element, because to Serbs, Muslims in Bosnia, who are Slavs, are still foreign body. Every mention of jihad, islam, mosque is supposed to provoke disgust... Because it reminds you of dirty Turks. Dirty Muslims. Balije.

You're not fascist. You're Nazzi. Like Aleksandar Vučić who once told that Serbs should kill 100 Muslims for one Serb. Same pattern Germans did in WW2 in Kragujevac.

@Nikola Tesla, So we can say that Serbs are good guys because they've killed 8000 men, instead of legal forces of Bosnia? You understand how that sound? You understand that you try to justify killings? Even if they soldiers, it's killing 8000 prisoners. But they wasn't soldiers. They were in siege for 4 years. They even hadn't enough salt to consume, so they were loosing their nails... Not to mantion how they could be soldiers without even proper food, not to mention guns and logistics.

Plainly, you're fascist and racist.

Yeah that's great, until one of your crazy leaders riles up the masses again and then neighbour starts killing neighbour all over again. that region is a joke.

You can delete my post, but still You can not delete the fact that You are the worst journalist ever CA!

Ne seri Tanja. Dobro znas da je Srbija pocinila zlocin. Sta se desilo sa 10 000 Srebrenicana? Da ih nisu otei vanzemaljci. Da ne pominjem ostale gradove, a posebno koljaca Arkana i slicne. Trazis objektivnost, a ti prva nisi objektivna.

Kretenko ajd ne seri vec pricaj o realnim faktima. Prvo sto ne spomenes koliko je Srba ubijeno od Kazana do sela pocevsi od Kravice do svih ostalih. Sto bi jedan moj drug musliman rekao da smo imali vise oruzja mi bi vas vise pobili. Niko ne kaze da je srebrenica bila nesto sto je uredu. Naravno da nije. O tome ste trebali misliti kad ste po Sarajevu vezivali sahovnice i zelene zastave. I eto sad ste svi happy imate svoje drzave gdje vam se mozak ispira sa muslimanstvom i Srebrenicom. A i da nema Srba opet bi pobili sa Hrvatima. Sve vec odavno vidjeno. Al glupost nikako da vam otvori oci.

But do some research before opening your wallet. Serbia and others in region are consistently listed as among the most corrupt and least transparent in the world and have a huge way to go before co,ing anywhere near European standards. Give if you want, but also realize that your donation will probably not end up anywhere near a person who needs it.  Serbia has wasted millions of tax payer money over the past decade and has already started announcing that they will need hundreds of millions more....even before the flooding has ended?!?!?  How can they know that unless they are simply gearing up for yet another campaign to take European money. Give if you want, but at least be aware.

I find it funny how all of the Serbs come on here to deny various war crimes they committed when the article doesn't even mention them. Pathetic. You guys killed a lot of innocent people. It happened. We all know you did it. Your wasting your time.

my heart goes to the people in Bosnia and all over the Balkan.  Hopefully they can overcome this.

Guys, guys, whoever is getting all riled up about this ancient history c**p – take it from an American – this is nothing to be worried about. This article is nothing other then an ad, that is what CNN "journalism" is all about. Well CNN/MSNBC/FOX and all the bigger media houses out there, too.

Now, if you are not happy, ask around about the rate, pay up, and you'll have a far better experience. Why so serious? Nobody reads this junk anyway except the 0.00001% of Americans that are still interested in anything other then latest celebrity nip-slip. And among those, there  are not a lot with brains, they are mostly zombies that believe anything mass-media says, just like Guy Debord once described his "Society of Spectacle" will look like.

Look, you can tell these dudes easily – they all "know" what happened. I mean, I don't have a clue, and I really don't give a damn. I know you guys were slaughtering each other for a 100 years, and that you still would if you had a chance, and it's cool that you are actually rallying around a common cause for a change. It seems that it works better then slaughter.

But that's how most of us here are, sorry about that. We only for reals care about things that bother us immediately, as a rule. C'mon, move on, don't fall into a trap of a few trolls. They're all probably from your region anyway.

This called KARMA.

20 years ago, these people imported 20,000 strong Arab terrorists trainned in Pakistan and armed by Turkey to kill the Christians in Bosnia to provoke retaliatory attacks from the Serbians. They, instigated by Pakistan, got rid of the Commander of the UN Peace Keeping Force, General Satish Nambiar from India, and brought in the British-Dutch Army and NATO. That had destroyed Yugoslavia a prosperous country as a major touristic destination. Kosovo was created by Bill Clinton by bombing Serbian infrastructure.

Now you pay the price..

Ask Ben Laden to give you the money for your relief.

@Leonidas, Why did Serbs left Sarajevo? I remeber them saying: we won't leave anything to Muslims (or Turks, the way they like to say) Even our dead. So they didn't. And they left.

They are accused and prosecuted for genocide, ethnic celansing (mild variation of genocide, really), mass rape... Each of these crimes was not possible without huge organisation, that included thousands of people. For other's, read about Tomašica, to realise scale of attrocity.

On the other hand, few Bosnian officials were prosecuted for not taking legal actions for some individual war crimes.

Floods are the most affected Serbian Republic (which accounts for nearly half of Bosnia). And it's a paradox that CNN calls Bakir Izetbegovic to talk about the suffering of the Serbian people. Father Bakir Izetbegovic, the leader of the Bosniak people from coming to power in 1991. 1995. During the war in BiH is committed genocide against Serbs in the Federation of BiH (Bosnia second half), and it proved the last census. Only in the capital Sarajevo, BiH, Alija Izetbegovic was killed and expelled over 150 000 Serbs. Serbs are not allowed even to come up with the rest of their relatives, even 19 years after the war. Nobody ever for mass crimes against the Serbian people did not respond. Unfortunately for many countries in the Western world extermination of Serbs is not a war crime.

And Bakir Izetbegović is opportunist, and not liked except to supporters of his party. He was never on the front line, he never did anything useful for the state... He's parasite.

As my Muslim friend from Sarajevo member of Bosnian Army said.  You had more weapons and killed more of us if we did we will kill more of you.  That was first truth I did hear in my life.

CNN as well as many international media is reporting false facts. I;m living in the region and it is fortunate that little people do visit this page because haters be hating is last thing we need, reglardless which "side" you think you are supporting. This is a major disaster of epic proportios. People in Bosnia, Serbia, Croatia are helping eachother regardless of religion or war history two decades ago. At least the region is united in times of great need. So this is not the time or the place to discuss war if there's any humanity left, and CNN milking that story and publishing deliberately modified information (having flood and 1990's war in the same sentence) just to sell more ad space is not helping at all.

There are way more casualties but are not being reported. They dont want to cause panic. But in doboj alone, there are 150 dead people. The smell of death is unbearable.

It's just so crazy that whatever happens in Balkan territory, somehow story always falls back on the war in 1990s.  Mother Nature made this flood and when people talk about KARMA-please learn what that really means before using it in this situation.  In situations like this, help is needed and it doesn't matter whether you are Bosnian, Serb or Croatian.

Well, let's just hope that Bosnian, Croatians and Serbs help each other and don't ask the international community for aid...let's break this cycle of the Balkans just sitting back and expecting others to fix their problems.

Others David did create this mess in Balkans, check who bellow.

Sulejman? Or Mehmed Fatih maybe? They didn't convert anyone, my grandafather took Islam. My grandfather could be chatolic, or bosnian christian. Orthodox couldn't, guess why? There wasn't a lot orthodox in Bosnia before Otoman invasion. Merely in eastern Bosnia.

Yup, you are racist. Like everyone who supports idiotic claims about false report of genocide in Srebrenica. Because you don't look at color of the skin, you look through myths about people who left their religion and took foreign one. But you obviosly hate Islam, like religion of dominantly people of darker skin.

All lies... Riiiiiight.

@Nikola Tesla, you only proved that you are grammar nazzi. Fits to your profile. You two can't upset me. :) I see your kind every day, I know how to deal with you. See, you two first started talking about "lies" in Srebrenica, not me.

Now all of the infrastructure seems gone, everythings since the war is nullified.

"Croats are helping Bosniacs, Bosniacs are helping Serbs", he said. Also mentioned helping neighbors are not include Serbia = Serbs helping only themselves, or not even that!? I'm witness of Serbian helps to Bosnia besides their huge problems! And most important moment is involved stories about Ratko M. and Radovan K.!? What's the point and meaning of this kind of "journalism"!? Maybe you approved using flooded catastrophe as one more chance to continue with worst campaign and very well known CA role in Balkan!? Remind you that Bosnia is built on two units, Federation and RS.

CNN welcomes a lively and courteous discussion as long as you follow the Rules of Conduct set forth in our Terms of Service . Comments are not pre-screened before they post. You agree that anything you post may be used, along with your name and profile picture, in accordance with our Privacy Policy and the license you have granted pursuant to our Terms of Service .
