
New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh are holding hectic meetings to chalk out the roles to be given to the BJP leaders in the new government. Sources have now said that a section of the RSS wants Rajnath Singh to continue as the BJP President.

Sources say that since many office bearers would move from the party to the government, this section of the RSS feels that to keep the party organisation in good shape they require a person of a stature like Rajnath to hold the reins. However, sources say that Rajnath Singh is keen on becoming the Home Minister.

RSS general secretary Ram Lal and senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley met on Sunday at Party President Rajnath Singh's house. Key aide of Prime Minister-designate Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, was also present at the meet. Sources say Modi is keen on a larger role for Shah.

This section of the RSS feels that to keep the BJP organisation in good shape they require a person of Rajnath's stature to hold the reins.

Modi also went to meet party veterans LK Advani and Murli Manohar at their residences. Advani is said to be keen on becoming the Lok Sabha Speaker.

Sources say that if Rajnath joins the government, he would prefer the Home portfolio. Sushma Swaraj is another contender for the Home portfolio, but could get Defence as well.

Arun Jaitley, Arun Shourie or a technocrat could be the Finance Minister, say sources. Sources say that Nitin Gadkari is keen on replacing Rajnath Singh as the party president.

The BJP Parliamentary Board will meet on Tuesday to discuss the new government and also decide on the date of Modi's searing in ceremony.

Meanwhile, former BJP leader and senior lawyer Ram Jethmalani has now said that Modi must pick his Cabinet with care. "Modi will have to be careful while picking Cabinet members. Not all BJP leaders are good. Modi should ensure that his cabinet has members who have a clean record," he said.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
