
JUBA, South Sudan, May 19 (UPI) -- The United Nations reported three more confirmed deaths from cholera in South Sudan on Monday.

In addition to the deceased, more than 130 people have been reportedly infected and were being treated at a medical facility in the capital city of Juba.

South Sudan's Ministry of Health said it was prepared for the cholera outbreak. According to ministry official Dr. Pinyi Nyimon , "We were actually prepared before the outbreak because we really anticipated all year. So we had trained our staff in all the States and we have pre-positioned cholera kits and acute diarrhea kits. We have trained rapid response teams in the States and we were watching, monitoring the situation so we were prepared."

Despite the government's assertion that it had prepared for the outbreak, UNICEF Representative in South Sudan Jonathan Veitch blamed the government for its role in the health crisis. "The severity of the cholera outbreak is just one manifestation of a country failing its children ... Cholera puts even more strain on the most vulnerable, whose health is already compromised by a nutritional crisis."

Following the outbreak, UNICEF said it helped set up a Cholera Treatment Center at the Juba Teaching Hospital.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
