
Multivitamins for children.

Johnson needed to reach Joseph Califano Jr., his special assistant for domestic affairs, but could not. Califano wasn't in the office. No one was picking up the phone at his house. Finally, someone discovered that Califano was at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington with his young son, who had just had an accident.

Califano's son was 2 or 3 years old and had accidentally swallowed "a hell of a lot of aspirin," Califano recalled. He put the boy, Joseph III, in the car and raced to the hospital.

As doctors pumped the boy's stomach, Califano spoke to the president and told him what happened.

"I said, 'My son swallowed aspirin, and they’re getting it out of his system.' And probably he said, 'You know, this is a goddamn disgrace, these bottles, they ought to be made so kids can’t open them' and ranted on about that," Califano said.

Califano's son fully recovered. When Califano got back to work, Johnson said he wanted to do something to make it more difficult for children to get into medicine bottles. The Child Safety Act of 1966 followed, ensuring that medicine containers were more childproof.

"It was classic LBJ," Califano said.  "It was classic 'We've got to do something about this.'"

A few years later, in 1970, the Poison Prevention Packaging Act was passed, which required a number of household substances to be put in childproof packaging.

Katie Zezima covers the White House for Post Politics and The Fix.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
