
It means having a name and/or surname in Hebrew or Spanish and a middle name in Turkish.

It means being called by your first name at home and by your middle name in the street by the age of 3.

It means developing skills to quickly decide which name to use to introduce yourself by, as soon as you enter a new place.

It means getting used to hearing the question “Why is your last name different?” starting in primary school.

It means internalizing Anne Frank’s Diary as you grow up.

It means being a part of a mere 13 million tribe in a sea of 7 billion in the world, and being a small sample of the 17,000 “spawn brothers” in Turkey.

It means trying to figure out why you are being held personally responsible Jesus’ crucifixion and the killing of Sultan Fatih the Conqueror, even though Jews only make up 0.2 percent of the world’s population.

It means having the ability to have all the answers ready, waiting in your mind, to respond anytime in your life to all these colossal historic questions.

It means trying to create a happy life for yourself while baring the burden of your ancestors having been enslaved, expelled constantly, despised and being the victims of the most massive industrially planned genocide ever committed.

It means getting used to hearing hate speech and discrimination any God given day.

It means consoling yourself by knowing that you carry the same cultural heritage as people like Einstein, Marx, Jesus and Freud, who all changed the faith of the world.

It means hearing the same lines your grandma used at home from comedians like Woody Allen and Adam Sandler, who tell them to the world.

It means waiting at the end of every movie for the credits, in order to count the number of “Israeli spawn” that were part of making it.

It means complaining about not having enough beautiful “Israeli spawn” like Natalie Portman or Ashton Kutcher.

It means being blamed for every good or bad action of the Israeli government, even if you never even stepped foot there.

It means ignoring the curses against your religion, book and faith by everyone, from politicians to street vendors, and still trying to enjoy the sunny days.

It means being treated as foreigners by the government agencies of your birthplace, in the country that you love, call your own, pay taxes in and serve the military of.

It means knowing that you can select any profession but cannot enter the judiciary, military or bureaucracy, instead accepting second-class citizen status.

It means getting used to hearing from people who you have just met that all Jews are related to one another.

It means praying in synagogues and studying in schools in Turkey and passing through security that is tighter than airports.

It means going to the synagogue and praying that you do not get bombed.

It means leaving the synagogue running out of the door, as if leaving a crime scene.

It means being the first curse that comes to mind with whoever is angry.

It means having a broken heart seeing the new generation of “Israeli spawn” who cannot carry the heavy burden, and instead leave to start a new life in other countries.

It means knowing that there will be no more “Israeli spawn” in Turkey in the next generation, but the hatred will still live on.
