
Prime Minister Tammam Salam is expected to meet with former Prime Minister Saad Hariri during a short official visit to Saudi Arabia.

Sources told al-Mustaqbal newspaper published on Monday that Hariri will hold a dinner banquet for Salam and the accompanying delegation.

Salam, who will head to Riyadh on Monday in his first official visit abroad since the formation of his cabinet in February, is expected to meet with Saudi King Abdullah and senior Saudi officials.

“My visit to the kingdom is to thank its leadership for all the aid it offered to Lebanon,” the premier said.

He said that the delegation will tackle with Saudi officials all the local crises to seek the Gulf country's help, in particular, the Syrian refugees crisis.

The prime minister is expected to visit Kuwait after his trip to Saudi Arabia.

Social Affairs Minister Rashid Derbas, who will accompany Salam, told al-Liwaa newspaper that the delegation will tackle the Syrian refugee crisis.

Lebanon has not signed the international refugee convention, but had generally kept its border open to people fleeing the conflict in Syria despite the scale of the influx.

The country hosts more refugees from Syria than any other country, with 52,000 Palestinians among a total of more than a million. It now has the highest refugee population per capita in the world.

Derbas expected the visit to be positive noting that Salam's visit to Kuwait is awaiting any developments regarding the presidential deadlock ahead of the May 25 deadline.

Hizbullah chief Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah stated that there are “no red lines” in the “security war” with Israel, reported al-Akhbar newspaper.

Speaker Nabih Berri has said that his rejection to extend parliament's term should be used as a “pressure card” to speed up the election of a new president.

Al-Mustaqbal movement leader ex-PM Saad Hariri made on Friday a surprise return to Beirut and met with Premier Tammam Salam at the Grand Serail.

(CNN) -- Comedic actor Robin Williams died at his Northern California home Monday, law enforcement officials said. Williams was 63.

(CNN) -- The face of 15-year-old Aziza says it all.

This is a brutal example of how far the struggle between Muslims and Catholics in Nigeria has reached.

The Church of England overcame bitter divisions Monday to vote in favor of allowing female bishops for the first time in its nearly 500-year history.

Two nuns and three orphans were freed on Monday in Iraq's Islamist militant-held second city Mosul, the country's top Catholic leader said.

William Hague's surprise resignation as Britain's foreign secretary is the latest twist in a political career that has seen soaring highs and deep lows.
