
Hyderabad: Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N Chandrababu Naidu, who is set to become the first Chief Minister of the new post-bifurcation residual state of Andhra Pradesh, called upon Andhra Pradesh Governor ESL Narasimhan at the Raj Bhavan on Monday evening, sources said.

Chandrababu, along with newly-elected TDP MLAs from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, met the Governor and discussed formation of a government, sources said. He is expected to take the oath on or after June 2 when the new residual state of Andhra Pradesh would formally come into being.

As promised to the people, the TDP chief would take oath in either Vijayawada or Guntur, which are in the post-bifurcation residual state of Andhra Pradesh and may also choose one of these cities to run his administration, since they are centrally located, sources said.

Chandrababu Naidu is scheduled to leave for New Delhi tonight to take part in a meeting of the NDA.

Though Hyderabad would continue to remain the joint capital of the residual state of Andhra Pradesh as well as Telangana for ten years after bifurcation, Chandrababu Naidu is said to be keen on running the administration from a city in the residual state.

Meanwhile, Chandrababu is scheduled to leave for New Delhi tonight to take part in a meeting of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), sources said. The TDP, which returned to the NDA after a decade, is expected to join the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.

On the other hand, BJP president Rajnath Singh rang up Telugu movie star and Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan over phone this evening and invited him to attend the NDA meeting in New Delhi on Tuesday, sources said.

The Jana Sena had extended its support to the TDP-BJP combine during the general elections and campaigned extensively along with Narendra Modi and Chandrababu Naidu.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
