
Imphal, May 19 2014 : Indian Security Forces razed the headquarters of outlawed Chin National Front of Myanmar yesterday with the Mizoram Armed Police (MAP) and seized various weapons during the operation, reports said.

The MAP marched towards Camp Victoria by 3:00 P.M.(IST) from Mawhro village and evaded it, said the reports, adding that the armed forces seized three weapons left by the Chin National Army (CNA) cadres while fleeing the camp.

Informing that the security forces have destroyed all the quarters and bunkers of CNA, the report said that the Security Forces, Commanded by Director General of Police, Lalngheta Sailo, returned to Lunglei, the second capital of Mizoram by 9 am today.

No Myanmarese outlaws were reportedly detained by MAP in the operation.

Meanwhile, the situation in CNA could not be known, as no officials could be contacted.

The report stated that MAP approached Mawhro in six trucks to attack Camp Victoria of CNA with reserved MAP personnel ready for deployment posted in Tuipang and Zawngling village.

It may be noted here that with signing of the MoU between India and Myanmar, the Central Government has been pressurising Mizoram state government to evacuate CNA.

Accordingly Mizoram state government fixed a deadline to the CNA to evacuate Camp Victoria and attacked the camp on expiry of the deadline.

This is the third evacuation drive against the CNA which was formed in 1988 to fight against the military government of Myanmar and restore democracy and self-determination.

Previous evacuation drives were undertaken in 1999 and 2002, which were both operated by the Assam Regiment.

* This news is as published by respected news daily at Imphal, whose name is duly marked as 'Source'.  E-Pao.net is not responsible for it's sanctity & originality.

* Comments posted by users in this discussion thread and other parts of this site are opinions of the individuals posting them (whose user ID is displayed alongside) and not the views of e-pao.net. We strongly recommend that users exercise responsibility, sensitivity and caution over language while writing your opinions which will be seen and read by other users. Please read a complete Guideline on using comments on this website.
