
A federal judge last week ordered a temporary halt to US authorities’ practice of force-feeding a detainee at the Guantanamo military base in Cuba. The order comes on the heels of a large-scale hunger strike by the base’s detainees in 2013, protesting the conditions of their ongoing detainment.

According to an injunction ordered by judge Gladys Kessler of the Federal District Court of the District of Columbia, the “force-feedings and forcible cell extractions” of Guantanamo prisoner Mohammed Abu Wa’el Dhiab, a Syrian, must stop until the US government meets with the court on Wednesday for a status conference on the treatment of the detainee. The judge also called for the preservation of all video evidence of Dhiab’s forced feeding from April 2013 until February 2014, which authorities will be asked to present to the court at a later date.

Last year, Kessler had dismissed a similar request of Dhiab’s due to the refusal of the Obama administration to allow courts to intervene in the detainment of prisoners. This was changed with a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit that permitted oversight. Last summer, Kessler was quoted calling the practice of enteral feeding, in which a tube in inserted through the nose of a detainee into the stomach, “painful, humiliating and degrading,” as well as being a violation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.

In response to the injunction, US Justice Department officials declared, “[Dhiab’s] motion is completely devoid of any details regarding specific instances of mistreatment.” Pentagon spokespeople, while asserting the forced feeding had been done as a means to protect the detainees’ health, stated that the military would comply with the order.

Since the January 2002 opening of the prison camp in Guantanamo, 779 detainees have passed through its gates, many of whom have not had a single charge brought against them.

Dhiab, a father of four, has been held in Guantanamo Bay without charges for more than a decade despite being cleared by the Obama Administration for release in 2009.

The statement and injunction by the federal judge is an indictment of policies carried out under both the Bush administration and Obama, who continued the practices of his predecessor.

Last year, the conditions at Guantanamo Bay drew worldwide revulsion after more than half the camp’s detainees launched a hunger strike, protesting the inhumane treatment they had received at the hands of guards, as well as their forced detention, during which many of them had never been charged with a crime. At the height of the protest, nearly a third of the camp’s detainees were being forcibly fed at least twice a day as a means to break the strike.

Despite Obama’s promise of the closure of the illegal camp, few prisoners have been released. In the case of Dhiab, spokespeople for human rights groups have noted that a return to his native Syria has been jeopardized due to the ongoing civil war in that country.
