
Jamaica Information / Mayor of Lucea, Councillor Shernette Haughton (right): and Hanover Parish Councillor, Wynter McIntosh (left); along with a team of volunteers wash the outside walls of the Ramble police station, in Hanover, on Saturday, May 17, in preparation for work to be carried out at the facility on Labour Day, May 23. Photo by: JIS Photographer Mayor of Lucea, Councillor Shernette Haughton (right): and Hanover Parish Councillor, Wynter McIntosh (left); along with a team of volunteers wash the outside walls of the Ramble police station, in Hanover, on Saturday, May 17, in preparation for work to be carried out at the facility on Labour Day, May 23. Story Highlights As Labour Day 2014 draws near, there are some 125 registered projects across the parishes of St. James, Hanover, and Westmoreland. The St. James Labour Day planning committee is reporting approximately 40 registered projects to date; Westmoreland 50; and Hanover 35 projects. The nature of the registered projects vary, with each parish committee, in keeping with the national focus, chossing at least one police station to carry out work on. As Labour Day 2014 draws near, there are some 125 registered projects across the parishes of St. James, Hanover, and Westmoreland.

Expectations are that this number should be at least doubled by Labour Day.

The St. James Labour Day planning committee is reporting approximately 40 registered projects to date; Westmoreland 50; and Hanover 35 projects.

The nature of the registered projects vary, with each parish committee, in keeping with the national focus, chossing at least one police station to carry out work on.

In St. James the parish project involves extending the perimeter wall around the Infirmary by some 300 feet. There are also plans to conduct work on the Spring Mount police station, located in the southern section of the parish.

According to co−chair of the Labour Day Planning Committee for the parish, Mayor of Montego Bay, Councillor Glendon Harris, pre−Labour Day work has started on the Infirmary, with a view to completing those on Labour Day.

He said more than 300 persons, representing a number of groups and organisations, have already indicated an interest in participating in the Infirmary project. This he said shows that a high level of volunteerism is still active in the parish.

In Westmoreland, co−chair of the planning Committee, Mayor of Savanna−la−mar, Councillor Bertel Moore, told JIS News that there is a significant level of enthusiasm among citizens, with support coming from the private sector.

The parish project is the renovation of a community centre and basic school in Bethel Town. In keeping with the national focus, work will also be carried out on the Whithorn police station.

In Hanover, Planning Committee co−chair, and Mayor of Lucea, Councillor Shernette Haughton pointed out that the Ramble police station will be receiving some attention as the parish project. He said volunteers are excited about the initiative.

"We are expecting about 300 persons on that day, they are so excited to have this police station beautified," she told JIS News while participating in pre−labour day work activities at the station on Saturday, May 17.

Councillor for the Chester Castle Division in the Hanover, Winter McIntosh, said the scope of work to be carried out at the police station for Labour Day involves painting; repairing windows and replacing blades; repairing furniture; tiling floors; and cleaning the facility.

Labour Day 2014 is being held under the theme: 'Take a stand….Beautify our land', with the focus on climate change adaptation, and the beautification of police stations and posts.
