
This is in response to the article, “Pay Kingdom-born expats the same salaries as Saudis” in Saudi Gazette (May 17). Kingdom-born expats should at least be given some sort of permanent residency status where they can live without an Iqama indefinitely.

It’s absolutely true such expats have grown up to believe Saudi Arabia to be their home more than any other place. It would be a great start if the government creates laws, which facilitates their stay in the Kingdom.

Hats off to this writer (Talal Al-Qashqari). Thank you for taking time to explain to the world what we (Kingdom-born expatriates) are facing each and everyday. My dad is in the Kingdom for more than 35 years now. I hope the Saudi government will do something for us as we love this country more than anything. And would never want to leave it.

Utter nonsense. You pay an employee based on his competence, experience and ability. Not on where he was born. If the job is specialized, then the employee would be paid accordingly. Get your head out of the sand man. There’s a world outside, and its moving faster than you think.

We need this so desperately. I am a Saudi-born currently studying engineering. The Saudi Council of Engineers now states that all expatriates must now have 4 years of experience for issuance of an Iqama.

Am I an expatriate? How am I supposed to make a distinction between me and someone who landed here yesterday? I was born and brought up here, the Kingdom is my home and my loyalties firmly lie here.

However we are ignored. The MOI needs to issue ID cards for people like us, or my only option is immigration to the West.

Appreciate this article written by Talal Al-Qashqari. My father had come to KSA in 1969 and worked half of his life and knows fluent Arabic like a local citizen. He is retired and is with me. I was born in Madinah studied in both Arabic and Indian schools and now work here.

My son was also born here. I had been to my country few times, but cannot stay there for more than 2 weeks. Since my whole life is based here. I hope the government does give residentship to people in the same situation.

- We call on all our readers and visitors to stay away from comments that are offensive or meaningful to a person or entity in any way.
