
NSW Education Minister Adrian Piccoli.

OPINION: WHEN I became Minister for Education in NSW three years ago, a fairer school funding system based on the needs of students was a dream.

That the name of the man who led the work of an independent, credible, committee entered the political lexicon as shorthand for a new approach – with greater government investment used to support students with the greatest need no matter what school they attend – speaks volumes.

David Gonski's name has become a powerful symbol to those committed to a fairer start for all Australian students. And the Gonski panel expressed a clear vision for the future: that "every child should have access to the best possible education, regardless of where they live, the income of their family, or the school they attend".

Last week's drastic decision by the Commonwealth government to walk away from the Gonski funding agreement – and to strip NSW schools of $1.27 billion in funding in 2017 and 2018 alone – turns the clock back to where we started. Not only is the funding to be removed but the Gonski model is gone too, which means we return to the uncertainty and inequities of the past.

The NSW government stands behind its commitments and will provide the additional $1.76 billion promised under the deal but the Commonwealth's decision to renege will cost NSW dearly, with government schools losing $944 million, Catholic schools $209 million and independent schools $120 million in just two years. Schools in regional areas, as well as disadvantaged and Aboriginal students, will be the hardest hit.

Much is now at risk. Programs that are threatened include: additional initiatives to improve the quality of teaching; reforms to maths and science teaching and learning designed to attract more students to study at higher levels; the next generation of literacy and numeracy reforms; targeted funding to support students with high needs, such as those with a disability, refugees or from disadvantaged backgrounds; and expanded use of personalised learning to all students.

Most of the additional funding for public schools has been distributed through the NSW government's resource allocation model – which reflects the Gonski principals of distributing funding based on student need.

Reforms I introduced in government schools mean that principals have much greater authority to decide how the funding can best support student needs in their particular school context. Under 'Local Schools, Local Decisions', all NSW public schools will manage more than 70 per cent of the state education, up from 10 per cent in 2012, and principals will have a more opportunities to select teachers.

This year we are supporting NSW public school teachers in their first year, by spending nearly $30 million to provide increased release time for professional development and mentoring. We have introduced a new standards-based pay model which will see highly accomplished classroom teachers earning more than $100,000 a year in 2016.

Our $80 million rural and remote blueprint seeks to provide access to a broader curriculum for rural students, getting more of the best teachers in these areas, and supporting students with complex needs, such as mental health issues.

The Commonwealth government's budget decision is more than a breach of a commitment with the NSW government, it is breach of faith with all school students in the state. For too long politics has been the enemy of good education policy in this country.

Adrian Piccoli is NSW Education Minister.

Adrian, you are the best Education Minister NSW has ever had. Thank you for all the hard work dedication you put in to your job in supporting students of NSW public schools.  You have done something many politicians cannot do and that is not putting politics before educational outcomes.  Stay gold, there are very few politicians like you left!

Thank you. It's important to educate our young people and equip them for the future. Thank you for honouring the Gonski agreement. I agree we need to reduce national debt and maybe even raise taxes to foot the bill, but too much, too quick and hitting so hard will have a negative impact on many people. A significant number of 'families' in our school community do not have the skills, education or motivation to face the 'hard times' ahead. A hard budget will not improve their capacity; they don't know how to get out of a cycle of dependency and in many cases cannot identify alternatives.

The Liberal way-   Keep the workers uneducated so that you can exploit them even more!

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
