
Prime minister designate Narendra Modi on Monday thanked world leaders and talked about strengthening relations with Russia, Japan and Nepal, but did not mention a word on US.

Modi tweeted his gratitude to the Heads of State and Government, and other dignitaries since yesterday but has so far made no mention of either US President Barack Obama or Secretary of State John Kerry. While Obama called up Modi, Kerry had congratulated him on Twitter. The prime minister elect was denied visa by the US in 2005 over his alleged role in handling of the 2002 riots in Gujarat.

While expressing his gratitude to Russian President Vladimir Putin who had congratulated Modi on his landslide victory in general elections, the BJP leader said that the ties between the two countries had stood the test of time over the years and would become more stronger. On the micro-blogging site Modi thanked leaders of Japan, Russia, Spain, Nepal, Canada, Germany and South Africa besides the UN Secretary General and the Dalai Lama since results were announced on May 16.

“I thank President Putin for his good wishes. Looking forward to making our relations with Russia even stronger in the years to come,” Modi tweeted on Monday.

“India-Russia friendship has stood the test of time. We will further strengthen our relations in a wide range of fields,” the prime minister elect, who is in midst selecting his government added. Modi also thanked Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe for his good wishes and hoped for new ties between the two nations.

Prime minister designate Modi is expected to resign from the post of chief minister of Gujarat on May 21, after the state MLA give him a formal farewell. A special session of the state assembly has been called by the Speaker Vaju Vala on May 21 to give a formal send off to Modi, who led the BJP's landslide victory in Lok Sabah elections with winning 282 seats.

After leading a thumping victory in Lok Sabha elections, Modi in now busy discussing the formation of his cabinet. He has been holding discussion with his most trusted party colleagues and the RSS leaders over the possible inclusions and exclusions in the new government.
