
AT&T Digital Life Gives Consumers Control to Secure and Manage their Homes from Virtually Anywhere.

DALLAS, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --  AT&T * today announced that on Friday, May 23 it will launch Digital Life in Omaha, along with five other markets: Beaumont, Texas, Toledo, Ohio, Greenville, South Carolina, Cape Coral, Florida and Oxnard, California. AT&T Digital Life ® makes customers' lives easier by simplifying the management of their home. Digital Life offers security, convenience and peace of mind, in a customizable and easy-to-use experience from smartphones, tablets or computer.

Starting Friday, May 23, customers in these six new markets can receive a live demo and purchase Digital Life in company owned retail stores or purchase online at att.com/digitallife . With these new additions, Digital Life will be available in 81 markets across the U.S.

With Digital Life, customers can use their existing home broadband provider, and any wireless phone service , and enjoy the security and convenience of a home management system with the flexibility to meet their unique needs.

Actively Protected & In Control: The foundation of Digital Life is complete home security with 24/7 professional monitored security that allows you to know what is happening at home, or where an event has occurred. Through AT&T-owned and operated, U.S.-based monitoring centers, professionals will respond to emergencies and alert police and fire authorities.

Seamlessly Connected: Digital Life is an all-digital, fully integrated, wireless home management system, giving customers flexibility to manage their home from their smartphone, tablet or computer. The Digital Life App is available for iOS, as well as Android, BlackBerry and Windows Phones. With customers' privacy in mind, Digital Life has a secure log in system each time the app is opened from any Internet-connected device.

Amazingly Simple & Intuitive: A user-friendly application was designed to be as simple as possible, making it easier than ever to manage your home. The Digital Life application gives customers control over cameras, door locks, lights, thermostats, small appliances and more with the ability to set alerts or programs to manage your home. It's all integrated into one simple system.

Personalized & Flexible: Digital Life provides total flexibility so you can personalize your home to adapt to everyday life – with custom notifications and scheduled tasks. You can add devices and services anytime, as your lifestyle needs grow and change.

"Digital Life is committed to offering our customers an easy and convenient way to secure their homes, protect their families and simplify their lives from virtually anywhere," said Lane Mansell, Vice President & General Manager, Northern Plains Region. "With the launch of these six new markets, we're looking forward to making Digital Life available to more customers throughout the country."

Most recently, AT&T Digital Life earned top honors at Mobile World Congress by winning the " Best Consumer Mobile Service " award at the 19th annual Global Mobile Awards ceremony.

In addition to $0 upfront fees for Smart Security, Digital Life is now offering installment billing,*** making Digital Life services more accessible to consumers by spreading upfront equipment costs over three payments.

Simple Security: Includes 24/7 professionally monitored home security, professional installation, remote access, a keypad, keychain remote, 3-pack of recessed contact sensors and an indoor siren for $29.99 a month plus $149.99 for equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Smart Security : Includes the benefits of Simple Security plus the following devices: motion sensor, smoke sensor and a 5-pack of surface-mount contact sensors. Smart Security begins at $39.99 a month plus $249.99 for equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Camera Package : View live video from inside and outside of the home for an additional $9.99 a month plus equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Energy Package : Control small appliances, lighting and thermostats for convenience and energy efficiency for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Door Package : Lock or unlock the door remotely with automated door locks for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Garage Door Controller : Raise, lower and check status (opened or closed) of the garage door remotely for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Water Detection Package : Detect water leaks before major damage occurs for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Water Control Package : Detect water leaks and shut off water at the main water source for an additional $9.99 a month plus equipment and installation before taxes or fees.

Digital Life offers a simple purchasing process with several options. Digital Life is sold and demonstrated in over 1,200 company owned retail stores and customers can also build a package and buy at att.com/digitallife , calling 855-288-2727 or scheduling an appointment with an in-home sales consultant.

To learn more about Digital Life availability, visit www.att.com/digitallife .

*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

** Offer ends 6/30/14. Tax due at sale.  New 2-year AT&T Digital Life Smart Security agreement ($39.99/mo.) required, with credit approval. After 30 days early termination fee of up to $720 applies. Offer may not be combined with any other Digital Life promotion.  See att.com/dldisclaimers for details, including additional offer requirements, fees and service restrictions.

Available in limited markets. 2–yr Digital Life Agreement w/ credit approval req'd. Residential customers in single family homes and townhomes/duplexes with no shared ceilings/floors only. Sufficient wireless signal strength, broadband Internet service, & 3–prong outlet at service address req'd. Digital Life equipment may be incompatible with some homes. Early Termination Fee: After 30 days after installation, early termination fee up to $720. Restocking Fee: After installation, up to $99. Other Monthly Charges:  Taxes and other charges apply; surcharges and additional fees may apply. Prices, features and offers subject to change without notice. Installation work performed by licensed personnel where required by law. Digital Life customer agreement & policies avail at www.att.com/DLpolicies .

Digital Life license info avail at www.att.com/licenses ; also AL 13-1596 &13-1599; CA ACO #7091; FL EF20001090; GA Sec. of State #11018719; IL 127.001502; MA 7067C; MN TS667356; NJ BL000010; NV 78422; NY 12000297692, licensed by the N.Y.S. Dept. of State; OR CCB 199880; PA HIC 078833; TN 1792; TX B17159; VA 11-7142; WV051204.  AT&T Digital Life, 1025 LENOX PARK BLVD, ATLANTA, GA 30319, 1-855-288-2727.

© 2014 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the Globe logo and AT&T DIGITAL LIFE are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property.

AT&T Inc. ( NYSE:T ) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world . Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and internationally. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's most reliable 4G LTE network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile Internet, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries.  It also offers advanced TV service with the AT&T U-verse® brand. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world.

© 2014 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.

Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise.
