
Almost 100 criminals on life sentences are allowed out of open jails every day, the Government has admitted.

The revelation came as ministers pledged to 'tear up' the day-release system amid mounting anger at the number of dangerous criminals absconding.

Murderer Arnold Pickering, 44, went missing on Saturday - and was only rearrested today.

The day release programme is designed to help prisoners settle back into ordinary life towards the end of their sentence by allowing them to attend work or training.

But it has come under fierce attack for leaving the public at risk from unreformed, dangeours criminals.

The Government has admitted that more than 1,600 murderers, druglords and other hardened criminals were granted day release last year.

Inmates who have gone on to commit crimes while on day release include double-killer Ian McLoughlin.

He was on his first unescorted day out of prison when he murdered Graham Buck, 66, in July last year.

Mr Buck had gone to the aid of his neighbour in Little Gaddesden, Hertforshire, when he was set upon by McLoughlin.

Convicted murderer Joseph Williams, 52, carried out a string of armed robberies on bookmakers while given day release to work as a van driver.

He had been jailed for life for battering a sociology lecturer to death with a hammer but was granted day release from HMP Blantyre House, in Kent, in 2010.

Convicted drug-dealer Mark Neville meanwhile managed to run a £14million cocaine smuggling empire while on day release from Kirkham open jail, in Lancashire.

He was allowed out to run a second-hand shop, which he used as a front to smuggle drugs into the country hidden in old furniture.

His disappearance came after the infamous armed robber Michael 'Skull Cracker' Wheatley went on the run for four days earlier this month.

But official figures, released by the Ministry of Justice, reveal that the two escapes were not out of the ordinary.

In total, some 41,330 passes were handed to 611 criminals serving life sentences last year, giving them 'Release on Temporary Licence'.

This means that on average each day last year saw 113 of Britain's most dangerous criminals allowed out of prison for the day.

And many reoffend while they are back on the outside. The Government has admitted that of these lifers allowed out of prison, almost one in eight breached the terms of their release by either failing to come back, returning back late or committing another crime.

Ministers this morning vowed to overhaul the system to protect the public.

Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said he would scrap the scandal of hardened prisoners walking the streets on 'town leave'.

He said he was 'tearing up' the day release system which is used to reintroduuce prisoners back into society.

He said: 'Temporary release from prison is not a luxury - it is a way to test those serving long sentences before their eventual release.

'Public protection remains our priority which is why we have introduced crucial changes to tighten the process and scale back assess to temporary licence.

'This will ensure prisoners are tagged, more strictly risk assessed and tested in the community under strict conditions before being released.'

But Tory backbencher Philip Davies, the MP for Shipley, described the latest disappearances as an 'absolute scandal'.

He questioned why convicted murderers were ever given temporary release when figures which he obtained through parliamentary answers showed 106 had absconded in the past 10 years.

Mr Davies said that when he tabled an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill currently going through Parliament which would have prevented the temporary release of murderers, it was blocked by the Government.

He said: 'It is an absolute scandal in the prison system. How on earth people like this can ever be given temporary release from prison on licence is beyond me.

'This is a regular occurence - murderers are walking out of prison willy nilly. It's a joke. I'm exasperated. I think the whole system is completely ridiculous.'

However, Peter McParlin, chairman of the Prison Officers Association, blamed the cuts for the escapes.

He  said: ''We have been saying for many years now that we have  overcrowding in the prison estate, people are being put into open  conditions who are unsuitable for open conditions.

'Twenty prisons have closed in the last three years and prison staff numbers have reduced by 6,000 since 2010.

'There  is immense pressure on the system and it is clear to me that the tick  box mentality that goes into transferring prisoners to open conditions  has failed the public.'

Adam Pemberton, Assistant Chief Executive of  Victim Support said: 'Victims and the public need, and deserve to be  protected by the criminal justice system and it’s critical that a  comprehensive risk assessment takes place before release is even  considered.

'We know from speaking to thousands of victims every year  the importance of being kept informed about developments in their case,  especially if an offender is due to be released.

'It’s important  that the reasons behind these decisions are properly explained to and  understood by victims and the public to ensure confidence is retained in  the criminal justice system.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
