
BANGKOK, Thailand — Thailand’s powerful military chief intervened Tuesday for the first time in the country’s latest political crisis, declaring martial law and dispatching gun-mounted jeeps into the heart of the capital with a vow to resolve the deepening conflict as quickly as possible.

The move stopped short of a coup and left the nation’s increasingly cornered caretaker government intact, along with the constitution. Life continued normally with residents unfazed by the news, which follows six months of crippling protests that killed 28 people and injured more than 800.

But the intervention left the country at another precarious crossroads — its fate now squarely in the hands of the military.

Thailand, an economic hub for Southeast Asia whose turquoise waters and idyllic beaches are a world tourist destination, has been gripped by off-and-on political turmoil since 2006, when former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra was toppled by a military coup after being accused of corruption, abuse of power and disrespect for Thailand’s king.

His overthrow triggered a power struggle that in broad terms pits Thaksin’s supporters among a rural majority against a conservative establishment in Bangkok.

The army action came a day after Thailand’s caretaker prime minister refused to step down, resisting pressure from a group of senators calling for a new interim government with full power to conduct political reforms.

It also followed threats by antigovernment protesters to intensify their campaign to oust the ruling party by next week, and an attack last week on protesters that killed three people and injured over 20.

The military, which has staged 11 successful coups since the end of absolute monarchy in 1932, is widely seen as sympathetic to the protest movement. Cabinet ministers said army chief Gen. Prayuth Chan-Ocha did not consult the government before issuing the surprise announcement Tuesday to take charge of security nationwide.

Although soldiers entered multiple television stations to broadcast the army message, life in the vast skyscraper-strewn metropolis of 10 million people and the rest of the country remained largely unaffected, with schools, businesses and tourist sites open and traffic flowing normally.

Near one of Bangkok’s most luxurious shopping malls, bystanders stopped to snap smiling “selfies” of themselves with armed soldiers in jeeps and Humvees.

Speaking to reporters later, Prayuth said martial law would last until “there is stability,” and that it was needed to force the two sides to talk about a solution.

Thailand’s problems are “fundamentally political problems that must be solved through political processes under democracy … not military or security measures,” Chaturon said.

The latest round of unrest started last November, when demonstrators took to the streets to try to oust then-prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister. She dissolved the lower house of Parliament in December in a bid to ease the crisis, and later led a weakened, caretaker government.

Earlier this month, the constitutional Court ousted Yingluck and nine Cabinet ministers for abuse of power. But the move, which left the ruling party in charge, did little to resolve the conflict.

The antigovernment protesters want an interim, unelected government to implement vaguely defined reforms to fight corruption — and to remove the Shinawatra family’s influence from politics. Critics at home and abroad call the idea unconstitutional and undemocratic.

The army issued edicts throughout the day. In one, they asked TV and radio stations to interrupt programming for army broadcasts. In another, they ordered police “to stop gatherings or activities that oppose” a new military command centre established to oversee the imposition of martial law.

The military also asked social media sites to suspend services that could incite violence, and ordered journalists not to disseminate interviews “that could incite wider conflict, distort, cause confusion in the society and lead to violence.” Those who do will face prosecution, the army said.

At least 10 politically affiliated private TV stations from both sides ceased broadcasting — after armed soldiers entered and requested they do so.

Prayuth said rival protesters could remain at their respective rally sites as long as they remain peaceful and stop marching.

The leader of the pro-government Red Shirt movement, Jatuporn Prompan, said his group could accept martial law, but wouldn’t tolerate a coup.

Red Shirts had been massing for days on the outskirts of Bangkok, and more than 100 soldiers were deployed near the rally venue, where the army set up checkpoints on roads.

Siam Intelligence Unit, a Bangkok-based think-tank, said that although the martial law did not amount to a coup, “it is clearly a military intervention” — one that leaves the nation’s fate in Prayuth’s hands.

The group said several scenarios could unfold. Prayuth could consult the caretaker government and other leaders for talks that could lead to new elections. Or Prayuth could allow the Senate to name a new prime minister and Cabinet, something the Red Shirts would oppose, perhaps violently.
