
Three more phases of gas field to be online this year.

TEHRAN, May 19 (UPI) -- Three more sections of the South Pars natural gas field in the Persian Gulf are expected online this year, Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zangenah said.

The Iranian government expects Phase 12 of a gas field it shares with Qatar will boost South Pars production by more than 875 million cubic feet per day once it's online in late May or early June.

Zanganeh said during a Sunday tour of the infrastructure associated with the field's development that Phase 12 is one of three new segments of the field expected online during the Iranian calendar year, which began March 21.

"Phase 12 is one of the important and big phases of the South Pars and its completion is important," he told the semi-official Fars News Agency.

South Pars accounts for about 35 percent of the total volume of gas produced from Iran . In the past, the government has held out the field's output as an option for Europe.

Zanganeh said in May his government was " always willing " to play a role in the European energy market, though European governments in the past have shied away from Iran because of lingering economic sanctions.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
