
SHE’S the smiling face who makes hospital visits not only bearable, but enjoyable, for hundreds of young patients at the Women’s and Children’s Hospital each year.

Play therapist Chelsea Whyte’s job is to reduce the anxiety and stress levels of children who visit the hospital’s Michael Rice Centre, which cares for children with cancer and blood disorders.

“Play therapy allows children to express their concerns and feelings, enhance their development and have fun,” she said.

The Little Heroes Foundation has provided $25,000 towards Ms Whyte’s annual salary, ensuring she continues to make a world of difference to children such as five-year-old Jade Evans.

Jade was diagnosed with a neurological disorder called Neurofibromatosis Type 1, when she was aged just two and has battled complications including a brain tumour and eye tumour in the years since.

Her mother, Lisa Raschella, said having the support of Ms Whyte had been crucial in helping Jade, now five, get tough times that belie her young age.

“Having someone there to constantly cheer her up, to play with her, to paint with her, it made such a huge difference,” Ms Raschella said.

Little Heroes Foundation chief executive Coralie Pratt said while the treatment process is traumatic, seeing Ms Whyte gave children something to look forward to at hospital.

“Chelsea has an incredible ability to help kids overcome their fears of treatment and as a charity that assists seriously ill children and their families, we are incredibly proud to support the work she does,” she said.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
