
Transport Minister Stephen Mullighan says the South Australian Government will ensure it helps Darlington residents through the difficult process of losing their homes for upgrade works on South Road.

About 60 properties are needed as part of the work, three-quarters of them residential.

Some locals say it was only a year ago they were told there would no longer be a need for them to sell and move out.

Mr Mullighan is apologetic. He says back then there was no funding for Darlington works and the State Government was at odds with Canberra about roadworks priorities.

"A year ago of course it wasn't going to happen, we didn't have an agreement with the Commonwealth that we could proceed with this, we didn't have funding for it," he said.

"In years proceeding that there'd been talk of upgrading the north-south corridor and various pieces of work done by the [Transport] Department.

"A year ago we weren't in a position to proceed with the project."

Now that two upgrades of South Road are being funded with state and federal money, the Darlington work and the near-city work through Hindmarsh and Croydon, Mr Mullighan says residents have been told they will have to go.

"Obviously that involves displacing people from their homes and that's something we try and do as sensitively as possible," he said.

"We try and work with the home owner to make sure we can help them find another property and also provide them adequate compensation to enable them to purchase a property and move to it."

Mr Mullighan says some Darlington residents are keen to sell up while others are reluctant, but says it is hoped to start the construction work in the southern suburbs by late next year.

"We do compensate them for at the very least the valuation of their property, whether it's been improved or whether it's in original condition, and we also provide further compensation for moving costs, we also try and meet a person's legal costs or their independent valuation costs," he said.

The minister says compensating each property owner and supporting their move is a very individual process.

"This is a really difficult process being removed from your house, it would never be an easy thing, and of course the onus is on us as the Government to make sure we do whatever we can to help people through that process," he said.

Some Darlington residents are said to be upset the compulsory acquisition process has started with no more than a letterbox-drop which urges they make contact with authorities about selling.

Mr Mullighan says he apologises if the process has been upsetting to anyone and promises the Government will do better.

"If that's upset people then that's obviously something we've got to improve on," he said.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
