
A delegation of prominent leaders from the Karnataka unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, including State president Pralhad Joshi and former Chief Ministers B.S. Yeddyurappa and D.V. Sadananda Gowda, met Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi in Delhi on Sunday to seek a sizeable number of ministerial berths for the State.

The delegation, which also included party national general secretary Ananth Kumar and the former Deputy Chief Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, is learnt to have tried to convince Mr. Modi about the important role played by the Karnataka unit in bringing the party to power for the first time in a southern State in 2008.

Mr. Eshwarappa told The Hindu that the meeting was basically meant for congratulating Mr. Modi on the resounding victory.

He made it clear that the delegation did not indicate any particular number of ministerial berths or specific portfolios.

“We are confident that three of our stalwarts — Mr. Ananth Kumar, Mr. Gowda and Mr. Yeddyurappa — will make it to the Ministry. We want a few others also to be taken into the Ministry,” he said.

According to him, Mr. Modi assured the delegation of considering its suggestion. He said Mr. Modi was happy that the State unit had managed to ensure the victory of 17 candidates despite having the Congress government in Karnataka.

According to sources, so far there is no formal word or indication about the number of ministerial berths to be provided to the State.

However, the State leaders lobbying for ministerial posts or issuing statements indicating that they too are aspirants has not gone too well with senior party workers. According to sources, several senior workers who strived for the party’s success this time are said to be of the view that the State BJP leaders must wait for their turn and occasion “gracefully”.

Meanwhile, the BJP State unit has recommended the name of S.V. Sankanur to the party central election committee as its candidate for the elections to the Legislative Council from the Karnataka West Graduates’ constituency.

The party has recommended the names of candidates for the three teachers and graduates constituencies. Though the elections are yet to be announced, the party has recommended the names in advance as the poll process involves registering graduates and teachers as voters.
