
GURGAON: With the district administration busy with the general elections, illegal construction activity in the restricted 900 metres of the IAF Ammunition depot has increased, district officials say. More than 168 FIRs related to illegal structures that have come up have been filed during the period, police said.

To check the rampant encroachment, the district administration on Monday called a meeting with IAF officials,  Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon and the  Gurgaon police.

In the meeting, the district administration took several concrete steps to stop further illegal construction in the depot. The authorities have decided to demolish all new structures that have come up in the last two months.

It has also decided to take action against property owners and crackdown on labourers found engaged in construction activity in the area. Vehicles found carrying construction material in the no-construction zone will be challaned and impounded, district commissioner Vidhyarthi said.

He said the measures were necessary to curb illegal construction. The  Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana high court had previously directed the authorities to ensure no new construction takes places till a final decision on the land dispute is taken.

The authorities have also appointed a district revenue officer as the nodal officer. The IAF has been asked to report all cases of illegal constructions directly to the nodal officer. Authorities will conduct surprise inspections in the area, include night patrolling, and in case any illegal construction is found after the inspection, the entire inspection team will be held responsible," said a senior district officer.

Vidyarthi added that all illegal borewells that have come up in the restricted area will also be sealed and action will be taken against the owner. A complete ban on the use of crackers in the area, owing to cases of firecrackers being used for wedding celebrations has also been ordered.

"The people are not aware that the construction near the Ammunition Depot could prove hazardous for families. Joint efforts of the district administration and  Air Force authorities would help to curb illegal constructions more effectively," said wing commander Anant Shukla, chief administrative officer of the Air Force Station.
