
A former Minister of Information in Nigeria, Chief John Nnia Nwodo says the people of Enugu State should be allowed to pick the best person as Governor in 2015.

Speaking during a cultural night organized by the people of Nsukka zone in honour of Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu at the University of Nigeria Nsukka, UNN, Nwodo stated that since the governorship slot had been zoned to Enugu North Senatorial zone, (Nsukka), it would be the desire of the people to choose the most resourceful and capable person among their interested sons and not for somebody to be imposed on them.

He noted that Ekweremadu had entered Nsukka and won the heart of the people by influencing the appointment of many Nsukka people into lucrative federal positions as well as attracting many infrastructural projects to the zone”.

Apparently accusing Governor Sullivan Chime for mariginalizing the people of Nsukka zone, he said, “Mr. Deputy Senate President, outside the NNPC, no board is more important than the Education Trust Fund in Nigeria. You denied your own people a position on that board and brought it to an Nsukka man.

“But one local government in this state has taken governor, they have taken Chief of Staff by extension, they have taken the Attorney-General, which is the first commissioner of state, they have taken the secretary to government, they have taken Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, they have taken special adviser, they have taken Class A Ambassador, and they have dominated our executive with reckless abandon.

“They have moved to the parastatals; they have the Chief Medical Director of Enugu Teaching Hospital; they have been Vice-Chancellor of this University twice, and walk around as if they are the emperor of the state”.

Senator Ekweremadu had during his speech, pledged to work with the people of Enugu North senatorial district towards the realization of their aspiration to produce the next governor of Enugu state in 2015.

He stated that his interest in Nsukka zone through human and infrastructural empowerment was not political but simply because he believed that his privileged position should be for the benefit of entire Enugu state, Nigeria and West Africa.

Ekweremadu, who is also the Speaker of ECOWAS Parliament, said that there were so many resourceful, reliable and service-oriented people in Nsukka zone just like other parts of the state, including a member of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) governing board, Mr. Chinedu Onu, an Nsukka son, who he said attracted many projects to UNN.

“Now, some people will begin to wonder what is my interest in Nsukka, my interest is nothing more than that God has given me an opportunity, a privilege in this country and I believe that my state should benefit from it no matter any part of the state it might be; whether it is Enugu West, Enugu East or Enugu North, they are entitled to benefit from the opportunity the society has given me in this country.

“We believe that whoever is going to be the next governor of Enugu state will not only be interested in delivering democracy dividends, but must be interested in ensuring justice to every part of Enugu state. So I’m not here for politics, I will like to assure the people of Nsukka that whatever is their aspiration, I, Ike Ekweremadu will support it. I’m going to support it genuinely and honestly because I believe in a just society”, he said.

In an address, the chairman of Nsukka Zonal Forum, co-sponsors of the cultural night, Deacon Okey Fred Agu enumerated numerous gestures of Ekweremadu to the people of Nsukka and prayed God to give him more wisdom, strength and long life saying that they are confident he would soar higher and higher in the socio-economic and political advancement of Nigeria.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
