
Hyderabad: Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday requested Governor E S L Narasimhan to ensure that bifurcation process of Andhra Pradesh is done in a transparent manner, leaving no scope for any misgivings.

Naidu, who is set to take over as the first Chief Minister of new residual post-bifurcation state of Andhra Pradesh, made a "courtesy call" at the Raj Bhavan here this evening, along with newly-elected MLAs of his party.

"I have requested the Governor to ensure complete transparency in the bifurcation process. There should not be any misgivings from any side. There is a special situation in Andhra Pradesh due to bifurcation and I have sought the Governor's co-operation," Naidu told reporters after his meeting with the Governor.

Lamenting that despite being the longest serving CM as well as the longest serving opposition leader, Naidu said, he was unable to understand what was happening with regard to the bifurcation.

Being the only political party with a presence in both the states, it is TDP's responsibility to work for development of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Naidu said.

"There is a special situation in Andhra Pradesh after bifurcation. Everything has to be developed from scratch in the new state. In Telangana, there are problems related to electricity and irrigation water. We have to address these problems and work for the development of the two states," the TDP chief said.

He expressed confidence that equal justice would be done to the two states since the NDA, led by Narendra Modi has come to power at the Centre.

"Only the TDP and the NDA can unite the Telugus and lead them on the path of development. Modi has also promised this," he said.

Naidu said the TDP would extend all co-operation to the first government of Telangana state led by the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS).

"We will definitely extend our support if they do good things, but some people are trying to derive political mileage which we will not allow. We will aid the development of Telangana also and come to power in the state in 2019," he said.

When asked about YSR Congress president Y S Jaganmohan Reddy's meeting with Narendra Modi in New Delhi today, Naidu said, "You can look at it in your own way. People know why Jagan met Modi; his (Jagan's) own benefit or something else," Chandrababu said.

Asked about cases against the YSR Congress president, who is set to be the main opposition leader in the Andhra Pradesh assembly, Naidu said that the law would take its own course.
