
Several months ago, I came upon a cartoon about Richard Nixon, the president of the United States from 1969 to 1974, when he was forced to resign over the infamous Watergate scandal. Hands raised in the air, with Nixon's patented victory hand sign, the cartoon, which I had placed on Freedom Watch's website , reads: "I am not a crook by today's standards."

While being truly prepared for the office of the president, and having performed well at least in foreign affairs – he opened up relations with China, saved Israel from extinction in the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, staved off Soviet expansion, and wound down the Vietnam War – Nixon covered up a CIA-run break-in of the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C. For that he was nearly impeached and had to leave office in disgrace.

The Watergate scandal ushered in a wave of new laws to try to prevent future presidential and government scandals, and began the long and never-ending erosion of trust in government. Today, 41 years later, after the failed and corrupt presidencies of Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and now Barack Hussein Obama in particular, the view of government in general has hit rock bottom.

A New York Times poll taken in 2011 – before a slate of Obama's "phony scandals" hit in a major way, from Obamacare, to Fast and Furious, to IRS-gate, to Benghazi-gate, to Extortion 17-gate, to the mother of all scandals, NSA-gate – showed that over 90 percent of the American people have a deep distrust of government. And, this was heightened among many of us during the recent events at the Bundy Ranch in Nevada, where armed Obama Bureau of Land Management thugs, disguised as government officers, used heavy weaponry, including machine guns, clubs, armored vehicles and drones to try to force the Bundys off their land in a power play likely designed to turn the land over to "friends" of Majority Senate Leader Harry Reid and his Las Vegas attorney son. Fortunately, for the time being, American patriots came to the defense of the Bundys and exercised their Second Amendment rights to have the government stand down. Unfortunately, Cliven Bundy, the ranch's owner, made some rather ill-thought comments about African-Americans, giving the government apparent license to now threaten prosecution of those citizens who stood their ground in defense of property rights and the use of excessive force.

Ironically, at least in my lifetime, the presidency of Richard Nixon looks good only by default. By the grace of God, our nation has survived the growing list of either government tyranny or incompetency – Presidents Carter, George W. Bush and Obama are the title-holders in this regard – and we are lucky to still at least be hanging by a thread at this point as a country.

Conservatives – and I am one with a large libertarian streak as well – are prone to see doom around every corner. But the present state of the nation is such that one cannot over-exaggerate the peril America now finds itself in – for on the horizon looms the now odds-on favorite to be our next president, Hillary Rodham Clinton.

The possible election of the female partner of the Bonnie and Clyde duo of Bill and Hillary Clinton would usher in the death knell of the United States of America. Having fought the Clintons tooth and nail during the 1990s, and having pursued them for their commission of a host of crimes, ranging from Whitewater, to China-gate, to Travel-gate, and Monica Lewinsky-gate to name just a few of the 40 or so of their misdeeds, I speak from experience.

And, why does Hillary have such a good chance of being elected president in 2016? First, she is a woman and would likely get a great percentage of the female vote. And, the Clintons' ruthless style of politics and intimidation is no match for the hapless Republicans, the gang who can't shoot straight and are quite good at self-destructing – not to mention the lack of real principles among the ruling Republican establishment, which is more interested in lining the pockets of themselves and the likes of their ally Karl Rove than doing good for the country.

Coming after the failed presidencies of George W. Bush and Barack Hussein Obama, a second "Clinton presidency" would be disastrous, not just because they would resume their practice of selling off anything of value for their political expediency – as they did with the Communist Chinese, with pardons, Commerce Department trade missions seats, overnight stays in the White House's Lincoln Bedroom, judgeships, commissionerships, Cabinet secretary spots and anything else under their control – but because they have no moral compass. For the Clintons, and Bill would undoubtedly be right there at Hillary's side, anything goes to further their hubris and hungry thirst for power. And, while they are not black Muslim-sympathizers like Obama and his racist comrades, Hillary has a documented certifiable history of taking money from Islamic interests, not just the Communist Chinese. In effect, the entire country would be put up for sale at a Bonnie and Clyde auction to further subjugate the American people to political slavery under their rule.

Yes, by the standards of yesteryear, Richard Nixon is not a crook, and whatever his shortcomings, Tricky Dick at least was not a traitor. Hillary Clinton, following the lead of her corrupt predecessors and her own felonious history and continuing modus operandi (and Benghazi is just one recent example during her tenure as Obama's secretary of state), would make Nixon look like a saint.

All of this is why We the People must wage our Second American Revolution now, before it is too late, to free the nation and ourselves of the scourge of the likes of the Obamas and Clintons. If we do not do it now, then all is likely to be lost.

The views expressed by RenewAmerica columnists are their own and do not necessarily reflect the position of RenewAmerica or its affiliates.

Larry Klayman, founder of Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch , is known for his strong public interest advocacy in furtherance of ethics in government and individual freedoms and liberties. During his tenure at Judicial Watch, he obtained a court ruling that Bill Clinton committed a crime, the first lawyer ever to have done so against an American president. Larry became so famous for fighting corruption in the government and the legal profession that the NBC hit drama series West Wing created a character after him: Harry Klaypool of Freedom Watch . His character was played by actor John Diehl.

In 2004, Larry ran for the U.S. Senate as a Republican in Florida's primary. After the race ended, he founded Freedom Watch.
