
Ten years later, Nick Merrill still can’tÂ discuss the details of theÂ data request that came hand delivered to him fromÂ the FBI. If he could, Merrill says, people would be shocked by the implications for their online privacy.

Watch Part One of United States of Secrets , which tells the inside story of how the U.S. came to spy on millions of Americans. In Part Two, premiering tomorrow night, producer Martin Smith investigates Silicon Valley’s role in the dragnet. How did the nation’s biggest tech companies react when the government asked them to turn over data on millions of ordinary Americans? And what do companies like Google, Facebook and Yahoo! really know about you? The film premieres on-air and online tomorrow, starting at 10 p.m. EST ( check local listings).

The request came by way of a National Security Letter, or NSL. The letters are not well known, but since 9/11 they’ve helped toÂ dramatically expand the government’s ability to collect information about Americans directly from phone companies and Internet providers. Any FBI office can issue an NSL, without a court’s review and with a gag order.

Merrill was not even sure he could discuss the letter with his attorney, but unconvinced the order was legal, he choseÂ to challenge it on constitutional grounds.

The decision set Merrill apart. Until 2013, no major Internet or phone company is known to have questioned the constitutionality of a National Security Letter. And while revelations by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden have shown that tech companies have often aided government surveillance unwittingly, the industry’s broad compliance with NSLs underscores its frequentÂ roleÂ as a partner.

Readers' comments that include profanity, obscenity, personal attacks, harassment, or are defamatory, sexist, racist, violate a third party's right to privacy, or are otherwise inappropriate, will be removed. Entries that are unsigned or are "signed" by someone other than the actual author will be removed. We reserve the right to not post comments that are more than 400 words. We will take steps to block users who repeatedly violate our commenting rules, terms of use, or privacy policies. You are fully responsible for your comments.

Funding for FRONTLINE is provided through the support of PBS viewers and by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Major funding for FRONTLINE is provided by The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Additional funding is provided by the Park Foundation, The Ford Foundation, the Wyncote Foundation, and the FRONTLINE Journalism Fund with major support from Jon and Jo Ann Hagler on behalf of the Jon L. Hagler Foundation.

PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
