
A man plans on swimming the English Channel in the name of Charity. It's a challenging 20 mile swim that he's been prepping for 2yrs.

Next month marks the 22nd Annual Walk to End Alzheimer's!

BOSTON (State House News Service) – Warren Tolman, a Watertown Democrat and candidate for attorney general, for years has been incorrectly described as a lobbyist in paperwork filed by the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 1199, according to the Tolman campaign and the union.

Between 2005 and 2013, SEIU Local 1199 paid $950,000 to a company called Etain LLC, according to U.S. Department of Labor filings, known as LM-2s. Tolman, an attorney and former state lawmaker, is listed as the head of the company.

SEIU 1199, which endorsed Tolman last week and boasts 47,000 members in Massachusetts, said Tolman was crucial to the union’s growth over the last decade.

SEIU 1199 in Massachusetts has regularly relied on Paul Pezzella as its lobbyist, according to filings with the secretary of the commonwealth’s office.

Tolman unsuccessfully ran for governor in 2002 as the state’s first “clean elections” candidate who sought public financing. Before launching his run for attorney general last November, he remained active publicly and behind the scenes, appearing on FOX25 as a pundit and playing the role of former City Councilor John Connolly during debate prep sessions for Martin Walsh, the former state representative and eventual winner of the Boston mayoral race.

Tolman is facing off against Maura Healey, a fellow Democrat and former assistant attorney general, in September’s primary. Tolman and Healey will meet on Monday for a debate in Lowell. The debate, co-sponsored by the Lowell Sun and Middlesex Community College, is set to start at 1 p.m. at the college’s Lowell campus.

Republican John Miller is also running for attorney general. The seat is open this year because Attorney General Martha Coakley, the state’s top law enforcement official, is running for governor.

The payments varied, ranging from a low of $40,000 in 2005 to a high of $140,000 in 2010.

Asked if Tolman had ever been registered as a lobbyist, the Tolman camp said he was registered at the federal level in 2006 and 2007 by his employer at the time, the law firm Holland & Knight.

When he became aware in November 2007 that Holland & Knight had done that, he asked to be unregistered, since his duties did not include anything that would have required him to be registered, his campaign said. The lobbying database run by the U.S. Senate lists the Greater Jamaica Plain Development Corporation and the Transportation District Commission of Hampton Roads as his clients for those two years.

SEIU 1199 is part of an umbrella group that announced its endorsement of Tolman on May 13. A SEIU 1199 endorsement is highly sought by candidates for public office, in large part due to its members’ canvassing prowess.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
