
BERLIN (KSNV MyNews3.com) — "Energiewende" (prounounced en-er-GEE-ven-duh) is the German word for "Energy Transition"

Americans are all heavily dependent on oil, coal and natural gas. But throughout the world, there is an increasing turn to renewable energies — chiefly wind, solar, hydro and geothermal. Nevada is making the switch, but first a look at Germany, a country that has embraced energy transition as a central point of public policy.

News 3 was a recent participant in the American Council on Germany's Climate and Energy Tour, which was largely centered around the Energiewende.

"Going the road toward the nature of renewables," explains Dr. Brigitte Knopf with the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. "So leading to 80 percent share of renewables by 2050. I think this is the easiest definition."

She says the Energiewende also aspires to increase energy efficiency by 50 percent and reduce carbon emissions by between 80 percent and 95 percent.

"Whether it's realistic," considers Knopf, "It's very ambitious, but in the end, I think it can be achieved. Yes."

The President of NV Energy has seen the Energiewende and other renewables programs up close.

"I spent a couple, two and a half years working globally in the solar business before I came here to work with NV Energy," says Paul Caudill.

He is familiar with the program that uses government subsidies to assist large companies in the switch to solar and wind.

"I saw the 'Feed-In Tariff' regimes — I'll call them regimes — but basically those policies in Spain, Portugal, Italy, Germany," observes Caudill. "I think that long-term those are not sustainable policies. And you've seen the impact of an overall federal policy that will pay developers — if you will — on an incentive price per kilowatt hour that they deliver. And that's not a sustainable way to grow a business."

The problem is that if the developer is not paying the full price, then the cost trickles down.

"What you've seen in those areas is a tremendous amount of capital flows into the area in a short period of time," explains Caudill. "You reach the goal, and the next thing you know, you've got basically customers or the populous of those areas that are left with the increased costs."

"Perhaps this was unexpected," allows Knopf. "And this is because of the success of renewables. Because we have so much renewables in the system, also the costs increase."

Another problem in Germany has been an unexpected jump in the use of coal, which in Germany often means lignite — a particularly dirty variety which can foul the atmosphere. That increase came in the aftermath of Japan's Fukishima nuclear disaster in 2011.

While other countries observed and assisted, Germany went a step further. Chancellor Angela Merkel and the Bundestag — or parliament — brought back a discarded plan to shut their plants down; almost half immediately and the rest by no later than 2022.

"We have seen a considerable decrease of the emissions ... but an increase in the last two years again," acknowledges Knopf. "I don't hope that we will really sacrifice emissions."

But if coal as an energy source has gotten a boost from Germany's nuclear shutdown, so has wind.

"Of course we are largely influenced by the Energiewende, because the change from nuclear power to renewables is supporting our direction extremely well," says Andreas Nauen, CEO of Senvion Wind Energy.

Nauen thinks he is in the right business at the right place, at the right time.

"I think we in Germany need to be the role model for many countries in the world," he continues. "And this Energiewende of a non-nuclear, non-fossil, completely renewables future will set the tone for many countries."

You may also view our Sitemap .

FOLLOW US!

This site is hosted and managed by Inergize Digital .
