
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Built in 2010, the St. George Plantation clubhouse and pool are a hub of activity at the residential community, one of the Florida Communities of Excellence for 2014.

The annual Florida Communities of Excellence Awards program has honored the St. George Plantation Owners' Association as one of 20 winners in this year's competition.

The association won in the large-community category of Florida-Friendly Landscaping for its environmentally sound landscape and wetland preservation and maintenance work.

"Our owners in the Plantation have always been committed to preserving the natural beauty of the island," said Karen Rudder, general manager, "but in 2011 the board began developing a Master Landscaping Plan with the help of landscape architect Patrick Hodges Land Studio of Tallahassee.

This plan is the blueprint that will sustain and enhance our native environment for the next generation through the use of Florida-Friendly landscaping principles."

Steve Kearney, association president, said the FCE honor is particularly gratifying for the locally managed residential community.

"The awards are usually dominated by central and south Florida associations, who have big management companies running the community and professional landscape companies handling the land. Our Panhandle community relies on a small professional staff and enthusiastic volunteers, so we are thrilled to be recognized," he added.

St. George Plantation was recognized among large communities for its Florida-friendly landscaping and environmental preservation work.

After more than 40 years of passive preservation, the association embarked on a long-term effort based on the Master Landscaping Plan for conservation and sustainability. It consists of funding for capital improvements and routine maintenance and repair to assure the plan's success.

While outside professionals assist with some aspects of the work, the community relies on its own manager, maintenance crew and dedicated volunteers. The goals are to enhance and preserve the natural beauty of the community, but also help reduce ongoing maintenance costs.

The St. George Plantation has 900 privately owned lots within the 1,200 total acres there. There are about 50 state-owned lots and 520 private homes. Many of the houses are on the vacation rental market, which allows visitors the means to sample the coastal lifestyle on the island.

The Florida Communities of Excellence program, now in its sixth year, honors the achievements of community and homeowners associations all across the state. Submissions for the awards are accepted at the beginning of the year through a submittal process at communitiesofexcellence.net.

"It's always good to be able to recognize the positive things that are going on that may serve as a model for other communities," says Alan Penchansky, executive director of the awards.

Communities and associations can enter in any of 11 different categories. Small communities (fewer than 400 units) are judged separately from larger ones, Penchansky said.

"The St. George Plantation entry was a real stand-out," Penchansky said. "The community is very serious about sustainable landscaping and their accomplishments were documented in a detailed and beautifully written entry."

The awards were created by the Florida Community Association Journal, the Becker & Poliakoff law firm, and Pen Group Communications.
