
international Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Chief Executive Officer Fayez Choudhury will be a special guest in Colombo today at the South Asia Conference on Financial Reporting for Economic Development hosted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka).

During the conference inauguration, Choudhury will deliver a speech while also moderating a plenary session on the Financial Reporting Supply Chain: Who is accountable for what? During the technical sessions, global and regional panellists will discuss the financial reporting supply chain from their different perspectives.

The Conference on Financial Reporting for Economic Development, the first of its kind in Asia, has been organised by the Confederation of Asian and Pacific Accountants (CAPA), IFAC, and the World Bank and will be held from 19 to 21 May, where it will convene some 150 regulators, policy makers, business leaders, academics and professionals from across Asia to discuss with international experts the state of the financial reporting supply chain in Asia and its relevance to private and public sector development.

IFAC is the global organisation for the accountancy profession with 179 members and associates in 130 countries which represents over 2.5 million accountants across the world.

During his stay in Colombo, Choudhury will also be instrumental in offering his expertise at a CFO forum organised by CA Sri Lanka on the role of the CFO in the current context.

Before joining IFAC in February 2013, Choudhury was with the World Bank, where his last two assignments were as Vice President, Corporate Finance and Risk Management  and Controller and Vice President, Strategic Planning and Resource Management.

He started his career in 1974 with PriceWaterhouse in London, initially in public accounting and later management consulting. Choudhury has served on a number of high-level representative bodies. He also chaired the Global Steering Committee of the International Forum for Accountability Development and was a member of the Standards Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Board. Choudhury has an MA (Hons) in Engineering Science and Economics from the University of Oxford. He is also a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
