
BANGKOK - (UPDATE 3 - 10:28 a.m.) Armed troops were deployed on the streets of central Bangkok soon after Thailand's army declared martial law on Tuesday across the crisis-gripped kingdom to restore order following months of anti-government protests that have left 28 people dead and hundreds wounded.

An announcement on military-run television said martial law had been invoked "to restore peace and order for people from all sides," stressing that the move "is not a coup."

"The public do not need to panic but can still live their lives as normal," it added.

Gun-wielding soldiers, backed by a military vehicle mounted with a machinegun, were seen in the heart of the city's retail and hotel district. Troops were also seen at key television stations and other locations.

It was not immediately clear if the move - which gives the military control of nationwide security - had been approved by the country's embattled prime minister.

General Prayut Chan-O-Cha, the army chief, also ordered the censorship of the media in the interests of "national security" in a signed statement delivered on every television station.

The army "prohibits all media outlets from reporting or distribution of any news or still photographs detrimental to national security," said the statement.

The imposition of martial law risks angering supporters of the government if it is seen as tantamount to a coup.

The dismissal of prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra earlier this month in a controversial court ruling has sent tensions soaring in the kingdom, which has endured years of political turmoil.

Her "Red Shirt" supporters have warned of the threat of civil war if power is handed to an unelected leader, as demanded by the opposition.

Not long after martial law was imposed, soldiers encircled a pro-government "Red Shirts" protest in Thailand's capital, the rally leader said.

"We have been surrounded by troops on all sides," Jatuporn Prompan told AFP.

The military is trying to convince the Red Shirts to end their gathering, according to Paradorn Pattanatabut, chief security adviser to Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan.

"The military is negotiating with the Red Shirts to disperse," he said.

The Red Shirts were angered by the dismissal of prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra earlier this month in a controversial court ruling.

The movement has warned of the threat of civil war if power is handed to an unelected leader as demanded by the opposition.

A military crackdown on Red Shirts protests in 2010 under the previous government left dozens dead.

Anti-government protesters refuse to participate in elections and say Yingluck's Puea Thai party administration lacks the legitimacy to govern.

They are calling on the upper house of parliament, the Senate, to invoke a vaguely worded clause in the constitution to remove caretaker Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan and appoint a new leader.

The Election Commission said last week that a general election scheduled for July 20 was "no longer possible" as polls could not be held without the support of the protesters.
