
ANOTHER public hearing on the draft supplemental environmental impact statement was held last night at the Father Duenas Memorial School Phoenix Center.

Although this was already the second meeting, tension remained high as different sectors of the community presented polarizing positions regarding the planned buildup.

Speaker Judith Won Pat said one of her biggest concerns with the draft SEIS is that it does not offer realistic or concrete descriptions of the buildup’s impact on island infrastructure, nor does it identify legitimate funding sources for the mitigation of the impact. Won Pat cited potential environmental impacts on the water and wastewater system of the island as a result of the buildup.

During the first public meeting held in Okkodo, Won Pat said the promise of economic benefits from the military buildup may not be worth it for Guam. Won Pat said in her close reading of the SEIS, she has learned that the island's economic activity will only slightly improve, with tax revenues only seeing a slight 3 percent increase by the end of the construction phase.

“However, our government will also have to incur the cost of the strain on our public agencies, which lessens our profit from the increased revenues. The SEIS also states that higher costs of goods, services and housing will push people on the verge of poverty into poverty or even homelessness,” she said.

Barbara Benavente, who was also at the Okkodo public hearing, officially presented a petition opposing the proposed Ritidian surface danger zone.

More than 900 members of the community signed the petition.

On the other side of the spectrum, James Martinez, president of the Guam Contractors Association, said the organization remains steadfast in its support of the military buildup and H.R. 4402 or the Guam Military Training and Readiness Act of 2014.

H.R. 4402 would authorize the Secretary of the Navy to establish a surface danger zone over the Ritidian unit of the Guam National Wildlife Refuge, or any portion thereof, to support the operation of a live-fire training range complex at the Northwest Field area of Andersen Air Force Base to support the training and operations of U.S. Marines.

Martinez said the Guam Contractors Association believes the Department of the Navy and the military have come forward with a plan they believe would work for the people of Guam.

“We wholeheartedly support the military efforts as it would build more jobs and opportunity for all Guamanians,” Martinez said.

Last night's forum was the second in a series of public meetings scheduled by the Joint Guam Program Office to seek community input on the draft supplemental study.

The draft SEIS, released late last month, assesses the environmental impacts of the construction and operation of a cantonment, including family housing, and a live-fire training range complex on Guam to support the relocation of approximately 5,000 U.S. Marines and their approximately 1,300 family members to Guam.

The SEIS is expected to be completed in early 2015 and the Record of Decision – which represents the final step in the planning process – will be issued following the completion of the impact study which is required under the National Environmental Policy Act.
