
LUCKNOW: Even after the  Supreme Court on April 15 recognised transgender people as the third gender, they are yet to avail opportunities in education. Despite the formal recognition, neither  Lucknow University nor the two prominent colleges - National PG and Isabella Thoburn (IT) are liberal to the  third gender when it comes to pursuing higher education.

Speaking to TOI, LU admission coordinator for UG courses, Prof Praveen Naggar said, Discussions were held whether to offer transgender as a third option for applicants. It was finally turned down in the absence of a government notification.'' Any transgender seeking admission in LU will have to choose male or female as their gender.

According to the judgment, the third gender can now be admitted to campuses and work places under the third category and will be given reservation as OBCs.

Similarly, National PG College that kicked off its admission process on May 6 too didn't offer the third gender as an option. We had a detailed talk on the topic. We had almost finalized to include it but there was no formal notification from the government. The government should initiate action,'' said Rakesh Jain, admission coordinator, NPGC.

IT College, however, showed no interest to include the third gender option. College principal Vinita Prakash said, We did not think about it. At least this year, we are not including it. May be from the next academic session, the third gender option will appear in the application form.''

The exclusion of transgender in the campuses has come as a disappointment for the community. The transgender community has been marginalized for a very long. I feel some advocacy needs to be done. Community based organizations will approach as a consortium to the government and seek inclusion in universities and colleges,'' said Arif Jafar of Bharosa trust that closely works with LGBT community.

Jafar added that there are quite a number of third gender who are eager to study. The society is opening up. Earlier, transgender people were not considered part of mainstream society. There has been discrimination in early school and so there was no question of higher studies till now.''
