
Officers previously known as provincial administrators will now be known as National Government Administration Officers.

The administrators will be in charge of the national government functions as clearly stipulated in schedule 4 of the Constitution.

Chiefs will also be equipped with motorbikes to ensure they execute their duties efficiently.

Officers previously known as provincial administrators will now be known as National Government Administration Officers.

In a press statement to newsrooms, Principal Secretary for the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government Mutea Iringo said both the officers and the office will hence be known by the acronym Ngao or National Government Administration Officers.

“All the officers serving under the new legal framework have been formally appointed.

These include the Regional Coordinators who will be based at Jogoo House, Nairobi coordinating a cluster of counties,” said Mr Iringo.

Others include 47 county commissioners, deputy county commissioners, assistant commissioners, chiefs and assistant Chiefs.

“The 47 national administrators who have now been formally appointed will be expected to organise all other government officers in the country,” he said.

Mr Iringo said the administrators will be in charge of the national government functions as clearly stipulated in schedule 4 of the Constitution.

He observed that their role does not include functions assigned to the country governments under the same schedule.

He noted that county commissioners will chair the county security committees as spelt out in the National Security Act adding that the Executive Order and redefinition of roles for administrators will improve efficiency in government operations and service delivery to wananchi.

“I have reiterated to the officers the need to hold regular exchange of ideas with the sister structure in the devolved government.

This is in line with the apex arrangement where President Uhuru Kenyatta meets regularly with the Council of Governors through the Summit,” he said.

Mr Iringo urged all governors to do likewise and take advantage of the streamlined structures for effective cooperation between the two levels of government.

He said that his ministry will continue to strengthen offices with a view to ensure smooth operations of the national government at the grassroots.

Mr Iringo also said the move will ensure that there is improved security and help in the fight against crime and assist in counter terrorism.

It will also help in the fight against illicit brews and second generation brews.

“We will operationalise Huduma Centres in partnership with the Ministry of Devolution and Planning for effective and quality service delivery in the country.

We will also seek to eliminate poaching, foster national cohesion and national values while at the same time promoting peace and reconciliation through the Peace and Security Committees and Councils of Elders,” he added.

The officers will also help deal with traffic accidents in their areas, coordinate the speedy issuance of birth certificates, IDs and passports while following due process to ensure proper security checks are done.

They will also help to mop up all illegal aliens and ensure community participation in security matters through the Nyumba Kumi community policing and crime reporting.

“To ensure each office plays its rightful role in this regard, we are investing more resources including provision of vehicles for county commissioners and their deputies.

Chiefs will also be equipped with motorbikes to ensure they execute their duties efficiently,” Mr Iringo said.

He disclosed that in line with the rebranding, a new corporate identity will be developed and rolled out all over the country.

“The Ministry will be taking measures to migrate new administration to the digital era in line with stated government policy and empower officers and County Security Committees to set up call centres at the county level for wananchi to report any incidences through phone calls, SMS texts and social media,” he said.
