
Recent revelations that some members of the Nakuru County Executive Committee either uttered forged academic documents to gain employment or are under probe over integrity issues has eroded public confidence in the county government.

As Governor Kinuthia Mbugua ponders his next step following allegationsÂ  his cabinet comprises officers who lack integrity , the heat is slowly turning to the County Public Service Board (PSB) and the County Assembly on their capacity to vet job seekers.

The two institutions vested with powers to vet applicants for any positions have remained silent as the governor takes the heat from voters and the civil society over the presence of tainted officers in the county government.

Susan Kihika is the Speaker of the County Assembly while Dr Mutiti Waithenji chairs the PSB.Â  The two bodies are charged with ensuring the county government hires qualified officials who pass the integrity test as prescribed under Chapter VI of the Constitution.

The CID is investigating Sam Gitau, who has stepped down from his position as County Executive Committee Member in charge of Trade and Tourism, for forging his degree certificate and KCSE and KCPE examination slips, which he used to gain employment.

Mr Gitau produced documents indicating he obtained a mean score of B- in his KCSE and 571 marks in KCPE. However, KNEC results printout indicates he scored D+ and 387 marks respectively.

Gitau’s appointment was sanctioned by the board, ratified by a committee of the assembly chaired by Kihika and later confirmed by Mbugua. Questions linger on how he escaped scrutiny at the board and the county assembly committee that vetted shortlisted county executive committee nominees.

The Standard on Sunday, with the help of an NGO, carried out an investigation that culminated in an expose on Gitau that has since opened a can of worms – with claims more officers might be holding bogus academic credentials.

The Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission ( EACC ) is now probing Rachael Maina, another member of the Nakuru County executive in charge of Lands, Housing and Physical Planning.

Ms Maina is under probe over claims of abuse of office during her tenure as the Nyandarua District Settlement Officer. She is accused of using her position to irregularly sub-divide and allocate some 96 acres of government land earmarked for construction of a village polytechnic to a “private developer”.
