
Under present scenario, the residents have to undergo tedious process as departments of the administration ask for attestation by officers or affidavits from general public at the time of applying for various government services.

The new provision would empower the residents to self-certify their documents like identity proof, mark-sheet, birth certificate etc.

To save the residents from harassment at the hands of the officials and also to save time, effort and money, the decision to start self certification was taken by UT adviser KK Sharma.

The second Administrative Reforms Commission set up by the government of India has also recommended adoption of self-certification for simplifying procedures for the benefit of residents.

The government of Punjab and Haryana has already introduced the same scheme for simplification of procedures.

Various departments, especially estate office and education department were directed to undertake a comprehensive exercise to identify all the services under their control in which affidavits or signatures of gazetted officers are required.

Subsequently, the existing formalities were to be phased out and replaced by self-certification except for those services where there is a statutory requirement.

UT deputy commissioner Mohammed Shayin said they could not notify the provision of self-certification due to elections. "We are working out the modalities and will soon notify the scheme," said Shayin.

Surinder Bahga, chairman, Indian Institute of Architects (IIA) Publication Board, said the residents were harassed by the UT officials, especially the estate office, and the provision of self-certification would put an end to the draconian inspector raj.

Bahga added that the administration should adopt the people-friendly formant developed by the state governments of Punjab and Haryana while implementing the scheme.

Criticising the administration for delay in implementing the scheme, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said the administration had developed a habit of delaying implementation of schemes meant for people.

Bittu added that the scheme would not only promote transparency and build confidence among the masses but also protect the residents from harassment.
