
MANILA, Philippines -  Volunteers and government firefighters who responded to the fire that caused explosions in Fort Bonifacio early this month were honored by the Army Monday.

Military Merit Medals were awarded to 11 personnel of the Bureau of Fire Protection while Military Civic Action Medals were conferred on 17 fire volunteers during the Army’s flag ceremony in Fort Bonifacio.

The recipients of the Military Merit Medal were Fire Officer 3 Aristeo Reloj, Fire Officer 3 Herle Barrios, Fire Officer 2 Leo Palconit, Fire Officer 2 Alter Borug, Fire Officer 1 Mohammad Salahuddin, Fire Officer 1 Rossana Chipay, Fire Officer 1 Revelyn Lindero Fire Officer 2 Edsel Estrella, Fire Officer 1 Annabelle Alinlig, Fire/Insp. Maria Leah Sajili, and Fire Officer 1 Maricel Lusuegeo.

Volunteers who were awarded the Military Civic Action Medal were Loule Chang, Rober Favila, Agrepano Santos, Micheal Cabab, Rodolfo Franco, John Paulo Latin,  Edbert Cuaresma, Allan Gabito, Herbert Pavila, Elver Santos, Ariel Vasquez, Julius Donesa, Jeffrey Favila, Emmanuel Ribaya, Rober Favila, Rommel Favila and Francisco Gacusana.

Plaques of Appreciation were also given to the Taguig City Fire Station, Pasay City Fire Station, Makati City Fire Station, Valenzuela Fire Station, Pasig Brotherhood Fil-Chinese Fire Volunteers, Old Parañaque Fire Volunteer Brigade Incorporated, and the Philippine National Police Southern Police District.

Army chief Lt. Gen. Hernando Iriberri thanked the firefighters for their willingness to face risks when they responded to the fire that engulfed the Explosive Ordnance Battalion headquarters last May 7.

Iriberri also called for prayers for the fire victims especially for 1Lt. Dinar Alosada, who is still in critical condition after sustaining severe burns. Alosada is still confined at the East Avenue Medical Center in Quezon City.

Five of the fire victims are still recovering at the Army General Hospital in Fort Bonifacio while three others are at the Armed Forces Medical Center in Quezon City.

Iriberri reminded his troops to strictly observe safety measures in their respective units.

A total of 32 soldiers were injured due to blasts caused by a fire that hit the Explosive and Ordnance Disposal Battalion headquarters of the Army Support Command.
