
Congratulations to the BJP for running a brilliant campaign and being able to influence the mind of the constituents to vote it into power, and how! Narendra Modi was decisive, communicated incessantly, used the media with aplomb, took every advantage that came his way (including the six week staggered voting), capitalized on a cadre of dedicated people who did him proud, and stuck exclusively to a development agenda which resonated with the common man. The fact that the BJP was voted out of power after Gujarat 2002 was a sign that was not ignored. This time around the BJP stayed clear of the RSS inspired Hindutva agenda and leveraged the good governance in the states where they had the government to promise the same in the country. The hard work and complete dedication of the RSS/BJP cadre can only be admired and applauded. Modi didn't exaggerate when he said that it was because of them that he won the election. That is a fact they can be proud of.

Congratulations to the Congress for being so spectacularly blind to the writing on the wall even though it was in the form of an electronic, neon lit billboard in pulsating psychedelic lights – predicting its demise. An epitaph must necessarily be brief.

Congratulations to this great nation of ours for being able to run an election of this magnitude in a fair and orderly manner, and then compiling results which today are so clearly accepted as being fair and accurate that nobody even thinks of challenging them or claiming that the election was rigged. Hats off to the Election Commission for a sterling job that we as Indians can truly be proud of and boast about.

Congress was living in a world of make-believe, living off a legacy that had actually dried up at least a decade earlier, but even the final wet mud at the bottom of the pool went dry now. Failure of dynastic politics – one hopes it has truly failed and will not merely be replaced by another dynasty – in a nation that is more used to kings and dynasties than to democracy is something to be pleased about in itself. One hopes the next step will be leadership based on ethical and moral principles and not on caste – but maybe I am stretching it.

The BJP ran a campaign completely devoid of the Hindutva agenda of its previous incarnation. It spoke of good governance, justice, economic empowerment, and inclusiveness. So one must ask if this is what got them the votes – and not the RSS inspired Hindutva mandir/anti-Muslim agenda. After all, the fact that the BJP won 73 out of 80 seats in UP shows that Muslims voted for them – which in itself was totally unexpected – unless one considers the spectacular failure of Mulayam Singh's Samajwadi Party, the elephantine megalomania of Mayawati's BSP, and the sleepwalking of Congress. Then what was unexpected becomes logical.

We can only forget or ignore the power of culture and history at our own peril. We are a nation that has a 5000 year history of kings and just 65 years of democracy. We are a nation which in that 5000 year history never rebelled against a king. We worship strength and power. We see kindness and compassion as weakness. Greatness is defined in our culture as the ability to break the law with impunity, which extends from the 'great man' to his servants and followers and so to be associated with a 'great man' is seen as a personal advantage. A 'great man' in our culture is one who can protect those who do his bidding no matter if it is right or wrong. Modi projected himself as that 'great man' – the electorate proved that he was accepted in this role. We today consider corruption merely as a cost of doing business, to be factored into our rates and costs and justified by the benefits that accrue. Corruption is now in our blood and has changed from being an aberration to an aspiration. There is no stigma attached to it at any level. It is merely seen as payment for service. It is only when we pay and don't get the service that we complain – which is what happened in the Congress government.

Equality, egalitarianism, social causes, ideology, and even justice is seen by most Indians as interesting at best – but not something that they are willing to invest in or will commit to live by. The demise of the Trade Unions and the Communist Party and the decimation of the BSP (Dalit Party) in UP are cases in point. We are selfish people – we look for personal benefit above all else. Modi promised us personal benefit and we believed him. It remains to be seen what he is able to deliver – but the Sensex reflects this public optimism.

2014 was a year characterized by one spectacular meteor flying across the political horizon -  clad in a funny cap and a muffler round his neck, broom in hand – Arvind Kejriwal – who meteor-like seems to have crashed in flames. However while he was flying, he emanated the light of hope – the hope of clean government, power to the common man, the nemesis of the big business-brigands who populate our corridors of power, and an end to our crippling corruption. He upset everyone's calculations in Delhi elections, trounced Congress, rendered Sheila Dixit homeless, and then didn't occupy the house which he was entitled to do – thereby presenting Manmohan Singh with his own retirement home. While in flight he captured the imagination of the common man – the 'aam admi' – and many voted for him or at least for what he stood for. But the votes were not enough to save him or his seat. Imagination not converted into a ballot box victory. Good case in point about the power of decisiveness and the failure of philosophy. We are very pragmatic people who like definite things. Arvind Kejriwal miscalculated and didn't realize that philosophy doesn't sell. Neither does being slapped in public – it may get you pity – but it doesn't get you respect. Calling it 'Gandhian' is incorrect because Gandhiji was never slapped by any Indian and in any case he never had to win an election. We Indians want a powerful decisive leader – not one who can't even protect himself from being slapped. Costly miscalculation for Kejriwal. Sad for us all.

Using UP as a good example of what happened across the country – on one side was the committed BJP voter who would come out in 48°C temperatures to cast his vote for his party. On the other side was the Congress/Secular party voter who had to choose between BSP, Samajwadi, AAP, Congress and many smaller parties – and he did – all to the benefit of the BJP. So in a manner of speaking the BJP is beholden to all those who voted for Congress, BSP, Samajwadi, AAP and others for its spectacular victory.It shows also that the single-minded interest of the voter is an economic agenda in pursuit of which he is able to forgive and forget everything else. No matter how unsavory and unidealistic this sounds, this appears to be the reality of the Indian voter across all divides. What also contributed is the quality of the Muslim leader – Mukhtar Ansari is a case in point – who is so completely pathetic and uninspiring that it is little wonder that they chose Modi over him. So would you and I.

The Ulama engrossed as they have been in their internal conflicts for the past several years, completely unconnected with their constituents, were rendered completely ineffective including those who entered politics – after all if you join the party of (Mukhtar Ansari) a convicted criminal what else do you expect than to be ignored – and good riddance.  Walking the talk is essential. If you talk unity and walk dispute it costs. Wonder if our Ulama will learn the lesson.

Now that this has happened and we all seem to be in a state of shock – the big question is what must we Muslims do? In my view we need to do the following which will be difficult and bitter, but then the alternative is even worse to contemplate. I hope we are able to see the reality of what we face and have the guts to do what we need to do if we really want to ensure a secure future for generations yet unborn. Do we have it in us to act? History will bear witness.

Dear Sir,

You have synthesized a fair analysis. However, let us rise above religions, we do not need a hindu, a muslim, a sikh, and a christian representative of India to the UN. What we need is, and I think you agree: modern education, grooming and empowerment of modern thinking people on the whole. We need to think in terms of human beings, in terms of progress, in terms of growth for all; not just in terms of a community in particular.

When developed and an educated society, everyone can follow their own faith, religion, beliefs in the privacy of their own homes.  With equal respect for the other, be it religion, faith, belief system, gender, color, cast and creed. Communal carnage happens in the poorest of the poor neighbourhoods and communities. It also happens, granted, at the hand of insane zealots like Hitler, or in modern times in Sarajevo, Serbia Herzegovina, in Africa, in Seria;  however again and again propelled by  a disbalance in wealth, colored unmistakably by religion.

I think we all should aspire to a better economic future, a better informed and educated tomorrow and a better appreciation for each other. There is no doubt in my mind that India is your home as much as it is mine; you are as loyal or more as I; and you have equally as deep roots if not deeper, and appreciation for your motherland as I. You and I are Indians. Therefore, let us work towards and hope for a unified today; not defined by narrow definitions, not delineated by religion, not circumspect by ethnic identities; and certainly not daunted by sceptical fools who do not know what they are doing and what they have done.

Let us raise fair leaders of tomorrow.

How long would the mankind need to realize that there is the one, the almighty, to whom all of us are indebted.

And as far as practice of religion is concerned, would you agree with Druidism? It’s high time you spent your good will to dedicate your time in knowing the religions in better.

And you would certainly find the right one if your eyes are open for verily the truth and the falsehood are very distinct and clear.

Maybe that many Muslims didnt turn up and failed to vote sufficiently  for an alternative.

On the whole a beautiful peice with balance views but just want to make sure you understand that sometimes things run deeper than what it appears on the surface and not all is what it seems.

I agree with several of the points made here including the need for the Muslim Indian for greater investment in the long-term well-being of his community. However, I can’t help but roll my eyes at the victim complex and sly contradictions with which this article is dripping. We are simultaneously asked to forget and forgive what the Islamic invaders did to India AND feel guilty about the riots visited upon the Muslim community. “Now wait a minute,” I imagine the author saying. “Muhammad of Ghor’s rape and plunder of Hindu civilization and the precedent he set for countless Islamic warlords was eons ago. The UP riots happened just last year. So let’s stay relevant here.” But I am staying relevant here. The psyche of the Indian Hindu wasn’t reset in 1947. The long history of subjugation wasn’t wiped out from our collective consciousness on Midnight August 15th, 1947. The referendum against Congress and it’s vote-bank politics was in part a pro-development exercise but on a more visceral level it was an impulse to understand our lost identity as Hindu Indians. And yet the beneficiaries of the Modi wave aren’t Hindus alone (as much as the author would like you to believe) – it is all Indians. A more secure and well-represented Hindu populace is a less frustrated and indignant Hindu populace. I hope the author and the Muslims he claims to represent would prefer the former, for all our sakes.

Thanks, Sunil.

I agree with your sentiments. We are Hindus today because of the bravery and integrity of our ancestors in the face of bloodthirsty proselytizers. Moreover, we did not encroach on the proud civilizations of Persia and Europe to spread our faith by the sword. I do not believe that is the Hindu way. In fact, the dissemination of a religion by violent means demonstrates its inherent insecurities.

As for the sporadic and infrequent displays of vengeance on the part of some Hindus in recent times, the best way I can explain it is the way in which a biological organism’s antibodies fight back against foreign pathogens. It’s a hard-wired and utterly understandable urge towards self-preservation, common to all communities. In fact, if someone wanted to demolish the Kabba in Mecca and build a Church or Synagogue over it, an instant firestorm of dissent would erupt in the Islamic world, hundred times as strident as the protests that ultimately brought down the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya.

P.S. *”…greater command of his emotions” in my first comment.

Wow. This comment is reflection of a sick mentality. Dismissing violence based on a sick biological example is really amazing.

I could say the Al-Qaeda types use this analogy… after all Muslims are the biggest victims of wars and terrorism— consider all the countries being invaded by the West and how Islamists who won democratic elections are being removed out of power extrajudicially.  So really Al-Qaeda could say that the terrorism conducted by them is a biological anti-bodies in the nations invaded.

All extremists are just cut from the same cloth… hindu, jewish, buddhist, muslim…. all sickos.

First of all i do not undestand what you mean by “we”.   There were only different small kingdoms fighting each other in the past. Haven’t you heard about ashwamegha yagya… And how the Hindu kings used it to expand their dominion and impose war on the states who refuse to subjugate. People like you convenient forget these things.

India was united only during the time of Ashoka, Mughals and British.  And of these, mughals were the ones to rule for the longest period. And Indians must be thankful  to them.. For they not only strengthened the country as a whole but immensely contributed in bringing  common civic sense , good echoes and culture in the country.

Unless you have conciously chosen to stick with this selective amnesia, I urge you to read an unbiased history of india again and clear your mind.

Arif,

So? There were small kingdoms fighting within most civilizations in human history. For instance, in Western civilization, the Romans fought the Germanic tribes,  the British fought Napolean’s French army, the Norwegians who were previously dominated by Danish and Swedish interests found won their own Independence eventually and so forth. That is pretty common. If you grew up in a big family you know not everyone gets along all the time. However, when the Mohammedans tried to spread Islam in the West, European nations joined forces to resist the foreign proselytizers. They were successful. Unfortunately, the Hindu kingdoms were not. However, that does not mean we should not aspire for the reunification of Hindu civilization. That is a worthy goal. This last general election was a step in the right direction. The divide and rule politics of the Mughals, the British Empire and the Congress was rejected and for the first time Hindus from various castes came together to vote for Modi. This is a healthy sign for our ancient civilization. If I were you, I’d put away that anti-Hindu scowl from your face, accept your mistakes and join us as partners in the great adventure that is ahead of us as Indians.

P.S. Here’s hoping this comment doesn’t also get thrown in limbo/deleted by the moderator.

Your history claims are at best laughable..  I know your ilk have strong problems with the current documented history. You guys don’t even accept the indian history ..

Muslims will always be a positive force for the nation.  Always remember that it was muslim rulers who united india  and gave its residents (including you and me)  a country  which we associate ourselves as indians.

Brother,

To us Afghans the Mughals following Akbar were despotic looters and occupiers, and Ahmad Shah Abdali freed us from their rule as well as later cementing independence from Iran following the death of Nadir Shah. So if you say Abdali was a looter and attacker then must also be acknowledged that Mughals were seen that way by others by the same standard. Mughal rule was unwelcome in both Afghanistan and Pashtunkhwa post-Akbar…please see poetry of Khushal Khan Khattak for examples of anti-Mughal sentiment among Pashtuns.

These things are complicated. I agree Abdali visited a lot of wrong on people east of Indus…but by the same degree Mughals and Sikh rulers did the same in the other direction. Things are not so stark…and is perfect example of Br. Amad and also your own advice to keep these things in the past, because rehashing them causes unnecessary conflict. Aside from few cases like Hitler who were pure evil, it is complicated since people have both their praise worthy aspects and also their flaws. All are human.

Overall, a very interesting, balanced and enjoyable piece. As a non-religious hindu Indian living in the USA, I really wanted to understand how the average Indian muslims feel about this, and this has given me a good view.

I applaud that you think you are Indians first. I agree with you that the muslim forefathers made a decision, a choice to stay in India and you don’t have to prove your loyalty to anyone. And that is true – the hindus had no choice, but the muslims did and they chose India.

That said, I too rolled my eyes at the victim complex. Now try to think about how average hindus feel.

Or do you demand that islam should be given special privileges because that is freedom of religion? And remember, it is not one person, it is the entire community. At what point will a muslim or a hindu take to the streets in a spree of revenge and murder (like what happened at Gujarat?). That can never happen in a civilized society irrespective of the religion.

I am totally against the RSS/Hindutva/rath yatra spectacles. I could be biased, but that was created to stand up for some of the other total lack of intolerance. Every group should self examine and steer away from violence and try to communicate through dialogue. And education is the only thing that will move the needle in that area.

Madam,

You are correct in criticizing Islam’s contempt for the female sex. The appalling moral bankruptcy of Sharia makes it unsuited for civilized nations. Unfortunately, the so-called secularist (but not really) Congress that created the tradition of winning elections based on vote banks clearly doesn’t care about the plight of women. Their failure to strip away special rights from Indian muslims and enforce a uniform civil code makes India look more backward than Egypt and Turkey – muslim-majority countries where Islamic polygamy is outlawed.

One other thing, I wouldn’t be so quick to give a pass to the ancestors of Indian Muslims who “decided” to stay in India. While it is true that some Muslims remained in India out of sense of anti-separatism and served the nation with patriotic fervor such as Maulana Azad, many others happened to not end up in West and East Pakistan for logistical and financial reasons, especially those located in the heartland of India. This less talked about aspect of the history of Indian partition is still felt today. For instance, note the celebratory mood in Muslim neighborhoods in India when Pakistan defeats India in international cricket. These anti-Indian ghettos are colloquially called ‘chota pakistan’ not without reason.

The Muslims of today were not responsible for killing your ancestors. They are innocent and had nothing to do with it. Justifying your lack of sympathy towards Muslim victims is like me justifying my lack of sympathy for Hindu girls forced into marriage with Muslims in Pakistan because some Hindu men raped Muslim women in India.

Those Muslim women who are raped in India have as much right to my sympathy as the Hindu girls who are forcibly married(i.e. raped) in Pakistan.

I would be utterly sick and cruel if I couldn’t afford sympathy to them based on what their brethren have done to my women.

Mahmud,

You speak as if I am asking for the slaughter of Muslims living in India and the termination of your culture. That is not my intention. In fact, my value system abhors ethnic violence. You either are pretending to miss my point intentionally or you really are ignorant.

We would simply like you to acknowledge that the friction that presently exists between our communities did not arise ex nihilo, did not fall from the sky. There’s a long history behind the conflict and a failure by your community to acknowledge that history fans the flames of that conflict. Our request is you affirm your community’s role in the historical abuse of Mother India. This is a simple request and to deny it is provocative. Just as to deny the Shoah or Holocaust is provocative to Jews.

As for the caste system, even the Congress-hero, Jawaharlal Nehru praised the caste system in his universally celebrated book ‘The Discovery of India’. Among other things, he argues that the caste system was devised to organize society by trade in order to increase its efficiency – what economists calls the division of labor – and it worked very well for its time. Try to educate yourself before you make these fashionable and ultimately hollow attacks on Indian culture.

Unless you begin constructive dialogue, there will be no progress. You can start by some collective self-reflection.

I really don’t want to get into Hindu vs Muslim argument here. Hindus are not great in treating women right, For that matter, women have been treated badly throughout history by all religions. Manu Neeti, Sati, inauspicious widows, dowry – the hindu list goes on. And also, we have no control over where and when we are born. So, I don’t think we need to heap the entire responsibility (or pride) on the current living beings for the deeds of ancestors.

My point is though, if you want equality, everything is equal. You cannot have special reservations, special interpretation of the law etc. You can also not get angry when you perceive any slight against you, but be fine and in fact be the cause of slighting others.

A secular country means the laws are not based on your religion, it is based on the constitution. Otherwise, there is no sense in calling us Indians when we get different rewards and punishments based on whether I am muslim or Hindu, man or woman.

Cultural change will take generations. But at least in common public sphere, under the eyes of the law, we should all be the same. If suggesting that is ill treating the minorities, then we have a fundamental difference. I argue  that the parties like Congress who play the divide and conquer game are unsecular and BJP which talks about uniform civil code is more secular.

Unfortunately this is the same trope raised by Western Islamophobes. Just google “Muslims condemn terrorism” and you can spare us this oft-repeated stereotype.

Maybe. I could be wrong because I’ve never seen or heard major condemnation. I apologize if I was just not aware of it. The fact is I am a person who goes out and seeks opinion, and I have not heard much of it. And that is a PR problem.

It seems that while a constitution has a clear wording and is interpreted by supreme court and can be amended when times change, something like religious law is filled with dogma, is subject to vast interpretation depending on who reads it and how it benefits them, does not have enough representation (women cannot be part of the judges) and there is no recourse.

Without going on with empty back and forth, here is my real question. I have asked it many times, but no one has responded. Please answer this question.

Now I don’t know about law specifics special to Muslims or other minorities in India. I do know that in the West, there are permissions to for minorities to engage in their own contracts. For example in financial or marital contracts— Muslims could do it under Islamic laws.  I would also say that the situation of Muslims in India is unique in that the numbers are so large. So you have to find ways that Muslims can do their own thing, as long as it does not harm the rest of the population. Freedom of religion is a hall-mark of any democratic society.

In any case, I would let an Indian Muslim speak on this issue due to my own lack of knowledge in the area.

Very well balanced article. Religion is a private matter, which has unfortunately been brought out into political discourse by successive governments and parties to further their own cause and not of the society at large.

The key for any community – majority or minority / rich or poor is too pull itself up by its bootstraps and get an education for its young. As we know, there are enough schools and colleges in this country where good education is available for deserving students. The minute one is educated, the focus will shift to leading a good life, in turn helping society at large, making religion a private affair.

Your comments still here .

If your comments were deleted , you must have violated their policy . State your views without being disrespectful to avoid it being deleted .

Finally, I concede that Amad is right in suggesting that this isn’t a public forum and that you have complete freedom to censor/ban me here. I just doubt that would accomplish much.

You will find plenty of criticism here, which does not match your hate-speech.

Do some soul-searching. Compare what I wrote, with respect and humility, against what you wrote. I have dealt with a lot of Muslim extremists, and really, you come off sounding just like them. You are not going to get anywhere with this kind of chip on your shoulder. Just as you have pride in your heritage, Muslims have pride in their heritage. And when you come here trying to “set matters right”, it reeks of arrogance and no one likes arrogance. If you think anyone would change or come to terms with you on “your terms”, then you are gravely mistaken. Listen and you will be listened to. That’s how discussions happen.

With respect, in light of the recent victories of my movement, I believe my need for soul-searching is much less urgent right now than yours is. We have been soul-searching for a long time and it seems we have emerged from the fog of confusion and despair created by anti-Hindu interests, ranging from the terror networks in Pakistan to the misguided and epicene leadership of Congress. We have emerged with an absolute majority, a powerful mandate handed to us by the people of India.

Secondly, I have yet to encounter a single major rebuttal of any of the points I made. Just because certain historical facts make you uncomfortable does not mean they are hate speech.

Your definition of a discussion is that I quietly absorb these lengthy blogs, listen to you pontificate and not utter a single dissenting opinion. Call me arrogant but I don’t share that definition.

As for soul-searching, no doubt Muslims have to do a lot of it, as the other article on Indian elections by Shaykh Mirza Baig illustrated .  But soul-searching is not an activity only for the non-victorious, victors need it as much.

I agree, I believe that the problem in South Asian Countries is not a political, but a social one. We have all the laws available but there is a question of implementing them. Because most people believe it is acceptable to take money from a person and let them jump the line, so we can use the money to jump the line ourselves.
