
A federal jury in New York has convicted the former London-based radical Islamic preacher Abu Hamza on all 11 counts of providing material support to terrorists. VOA’s Carolyn Weaver has details.

NEW YORK — A federal jury in New York has convicted former London-based radical Islamic preacher Abu Hamza on all 11 counts of providing material support to terrorists.

The guilty verdict for Abu Hamza, whose birth name is Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, followed a month-long trial before a jury of eight men and four women. They found Hamza guilty on all 11 terrorism-related counts, including sending two followers to set up a jihad training camp in the U.S., dispatching two men to help al-Qaida in Afghanistan, and providing hostage-takers in Yemen with a satellite phone.

Four European hostages died during a rescue attempt. Two survivors testified at the trial, as did a convicted former al-Qaida associate who appeared from Britain via a live television feed. Jurors also saw videotapes and heard audio clips of Hamza in which he called non-Muslims “pigs” and justified taking them captive.

“He has not used this as a pulpit for proselytizing about jihad. Quite the opposite. Whenever he has been given the chance, he has backed away from the idea of violence and talked a great deal about religion in a more helpful sense," said Greenberg.

Defense attorney Jeremy Schneider countered that the evidence against Hamza amounted only to words, not actual deeds.

Hamza faces possible life in prison when he is sentenced later this year.

This report is based on news agency reports.

Your JavaScript is turned off or you have an old version of Adobe's Flash Player. Get the latest Flash player .

Jewish people from across Europe and Russia have been immigrating to Argentina for hundreds of years. They brought with them dance music that was eventually mixed with Argentine tango. The result is Yiddish tango -- a fusion of melodies and cultural experiences that is still evolving today.  Elizabeth Lee reports on how one band is bringing Yiddish tango to Los Angeles.
