
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Good Monday Morning, Fellow Seekers.

But in case you are not, our pals at PhillyMag hammer home just how much clout Dougherty has wielded in the last decade or so. The union has spent about $25 million on political campaigns since 2000.

"Local 98 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers has poured $25.6 million into political races since 2000, an Inquirer analysis of campaign records found — more than statewide powerhouses such as the trial lawyers, teachers’ unions, or Marcellus Shale gas drillers.

The donations, financed by members’ paycheck deductions, have helped turn the local and its business manager, John J. Dougherty Jr., into a potent and even feared political force.

The union’s political action committee has contributed more than $5.5 million to current officeholders in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and the federal government – from the courthouse to the White House.

So why do you need to care? Because organized labor will be key to turning out the vote during Tuesday's primary election. IBEW is backing Allyson Schwartz tomorrow, so that's no small thing .

But as we've noted elsewhere in these pages, voter turnout will bey key to the election. But will it be enough to close Tom Wiolf's 17- to 25-percentage point lead in the polls? We'll have to see.

The rest of the day's news starts now.

What Goes On.

People gather on the Capitol steps at noon to rail against state government for something or other. We're not entirely clear on the group or the cause.

You Say It's Your Birthday Dept.

Best wishes go out this morning to David Taylor, the comics-loving executive director of the Pennsylvania Manufacturers Association. May you leap a tall building in a single bound on your way to Happy Hour today, sir.

Heavy Rotation.

Here's an absolutely lovely tune by Alexei Murdoch. It's "All of My Days."

Monday's Gratuitous Baseball Link.

KC took two out of three from Baltimore, wrapping up a three-game stand on Sunday with an 8-6 win. It's a new week, boys.

And now you're up to date. See you all back here in a bit.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up for 'Today's Front Page'

To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 PA Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
