
India’s Tata Communications, which owns 67-percent of Neotel, announced today in a statement that the deal had received approval from both Neotel and Vodacom shareholders. The transaction is subject to approval by regulators.

Vodacom, which is South Africa’s largest mobile operator by subscribers, issued a separate statement, in which it said that the acquisition will bring significant benefits to its business, including the opportunity to accelerate the roll-out of 4G services.

For UK parent Vodafone, the deal will strengthen its foothold in South Africa’s fast-growing telecommunication market.

In today’s trading, Vodafone shares were down 1.2 percent at 214.49p as of 13:16 BST.

Vodacom is to acquire 100 percent of Neotel for ZAR7.0 billion ($677 million), Tata revealed in its statement. Vodafone’s subsidiary said that it planned to fund the deal through available cash resources and loans.

The deal will give Vodacom access to 15,000 kilometres of fibre-optic cables, including 8,000 kilometres of cables in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town. Also, the deal will give Vodacom much-needed spectrum that will benefit the roll-out of the company’s LTE services.

Vodafone’s unit also expects the deal to help it achieve significant cost and capital expenses savings in South Africa.

Meanwhile, Tata Communication’s chief executive officer Vinod Kumar said that the company was satisfied with the outcome of the deal.

Vodacom, which is 65-percent owned by Vodafone, reported today that its full-year earnings per share had risen to ZAR8.96 ($0.87) in the year ended March, from ZAR8.72 a year earlier. This was lower than the ZAR9.56 median estimate of analysts polled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 8.3 percent to ZAR75.7 billion.

Vodacom’s parent company Vodafone is to release its full year results tomorrow.

The information provided on this site is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to law or regulation or that would subject iNVEZZ to any regulation under, or registration requirement within, such jurisdiction or country. Products or services described herein may not be available in all jurisdictions.

Neither the information, nor any opinion contained in this site, constitutes a solicitation or offer by us to buy or to sell any investments or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or service, whether relating to buying, selling, holding investments of any description.

Use of this Website We advertise the services of others involved in financial markets. We do not provide advice concerning the suitability or value of any particular investment or investment strategy. The content of this website is provided for general information purposes only and does not constitute financial or other professional advice.

Forex, Spread Bets and CFDs are high risk and losses can exceed your investment. Binary options are speculative and you can lose some or all of your investment.

(c) 2014, Invezz. All right reserved. iNVEZZ Limited is registered in England. Company No. 8109496.

Thank you for your registration.

(in the next 7 days) by clicking the link in your verification email.

Don't have an iNVEZZ account? Sign up now!

Thank you for your registration.

(in the next 7 days) by clicking the link in your verification email.

Thank you for your registration.

(in the next 7 days) by clicking the link in your verification email.

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our website. However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time.
