
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

Lt-Governor Najeeb Jung has ordered “criminal proceedings” against anyone dumping ‘malba’ (concrete waste) at unauthorised sites within the city. In the absence of any landfill site within the national capital, Jung said a “suitable site would be allocated by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA)” for the purpose very soon.

While reviewing the preparedness of the city to deal with clogged drains and traffic management during the monsoon, Jung directed the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to clear their under-construction sites of all construction debris and improve traffic management at these places.

“The Lt-Governor instructed the DMRC not to leave concrete waste at their construction sites and to improve traffic management at the places. He also instructed the discoms to ensure that no digging is done during the monsoon,” a senior Raj Niwas official said.

May-end has been set as the deadline for finishing the task of desilting drains and clearing construction waste after which a review meeting would be held in the first week of June.

A statement issued by the Lt-Governor’s office said Jung has ordered “strict criminal proceedings against those dumping malba at unauthorised sites within the city”.

The Lt-Governor has also instructed the municipal corporations to carry out desilting work in drains less than 4-ft deep in all unauthorised colonies “irrespective of the agency dealing with the development works there”.

Jung also instructed all stakeholders “to ensure sufficient number of telephone lines in control rooms, wherever necessary” and that staff should be available round the clock to operate pumps placed at vulnerable points and roads that get water-logged during the monsoon, an official said.

Jung has designated the district commissioners of the Revenue department as nodal officers for coordination among various agencies and stakeholders.

PM Narendra Modi pitches for 'zero tolerance' towards terror Prime Minister Narendra Modi today told leaders of five-nation grouping BRICS that the "choices" they make now will shape the future of the world at large.
