
TEMPLE (May 18, 2014)--Balloons  bobbed in the breeze outside of the Chandler family home Monday in  Temple as the residents inside mourned the loss of Kentrell Chandler,  17, who drowned Saturday while swimming with friends at Rogers Park at  Lake Belton.

He was the youngest of four children, and a twin. His parents recall the dedication their son put toward training for sports.

"He  wasn't really muscular, and the last six or seven months it was a slow  progressive process at first, but all of a sudden he just boom...got so  big," said Kenneth Chandler, Kentrell's father.

"I'm really going to miss my baby boy walking in here after practice," said Lisa Chandler, Kentrell's mother.

"He always comes in the kitchen to see what I had cooked for him every day."

Hearts were heavy Monday at Temple High School, as well.

"It's  very difficult," said Bob James, Temple High School principal. "He was a  great kid and scholar student, and fun to be around."

Kentrell was a defensive tackle, and No. 51 on the high school's JV football team.

“We  feel like we are a right knit group and Kentrell was a part of that  group, and I certainly don't want to indicate we are suffering like his  family is but we are suffering because it's a tremendous loss to us  because we loved him, loved being around him, and loved him like he was  ours,” said Mike Spradlin, head football coach.

TEMPLE (May 20, 2014) Funeral services have been scheduled for Temple High School junior Kentrell Jordan Chandler, 17, who drowned Saturday while swimming with friends in Lake Belton.

Visitation will be from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday at Branford Dawson Funeral Home at 718 South 7th St. in Temple.

The funeral service will be at 2 p.m. Friday at the Ministry of Hope at 2 North General Bruce Dr. in Temple.

Burial will be in Hillcrest Cemetery at 1873 North 1st St. in Temple.

A balloon release was held Monday evening at Wildcat Stadium in Chandler’s memory.

Chandler was at the lake with friends just after 6 p.m. last night when he attempted to swim across a cove in Rogers Park, authorities said.

He began to struggle in about 20 feet of water and went under.

Emergency responders were called after Chandler did not resurface.

His body was recovered at around 8:25 p.m. Saturday.

Chandler was the second Temple High School student to die this month.

Kimberlyn “Kimmy” Longbotham, 18, died after a three-vehicle crash on May 2.

Longbotham, who dreamed of becoming a teacher, was set to graduate in June and had been accepted to Texas State University.

She had been named a first team All-District catcher.

Pilgrim's has a Maintenance position open in Waco. This position is responsible for installing, repairing and maintaining electrical systems and equipment. Apply Now!
