
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

BAZ is a statutory body tasked with licensing of television and radio stations.

Yesterday, BAZ in a statement said the two stations were given operating licences on November 2011 after indicating that they would provide national coverage within 36 months by installing transmitters or provide funding to Transmedia Corporation to ensure national coverage of services.

However, both stations were lagging behind in installing the transmitters.

“The authority has observed that so far ZiFM has deployed 10 transmitters whilst Star FM had deployed nine transmitters only out of the required 24 with six months to go before the expiry of the 36-month period,” BAZ said.

“The BAZ hereby notifies the two licensees that they are required to provide national coverage services by 22 November, 2014. Henceforth, the authority will audit the progress made by the two companies on a monthly basis.

Zimbabwe currently has six radio stations — four owned by the government — while the other two — Star FM and ZiFm — owned by Zimpapers and Information, Media and Broadcasting Services deputy minister Supa Mandiwanzira respectively.

On his appointment as deputy minister last year, Mandiwanzira stepped down as chief executive officer of ABC Communications, which owns ZiFM.

Mandiwanzira recently said his ministry was committed to multiple radio stations, but was against individuals who claimed to be representing communities yet wanted to use the stations as political tools.

Information minister Jonathan Moyo in February said more radio stations would be given broadcasting licences following the digitalisation process that ends in June 2015.

During recent Information and Media Panel of Inquiry outreaches in Matabeleland, people expressed concern over persisting lack of radio and television signals and urged government to speed up the setting up of community radio stations.

Five are owned by the state and the other by Super Mandiwanzira.

Each district should be allowed to have their own radio station(s), commercial, community, musical entertainment etc. Each of them should be allowed, if they so wish and if they can afford it, to spread their coverage to beyond the district outlines to cater for those of the district’s citizens who will be working or visiting in other parts of the province and the country.

ko zbc inema decades isingabata dzimwe nzvimbo wani. achaisa.

well i wonder which world class station will be left if they stop starfm and zifm.i cnt imagine listening to anythng else.
