
The government has begun arrangements to deploy a Ground Self-Defense Force unit on Amami-Oshima Island in southwestern Japan as part of Japan's effort to boost its defense of remote islands in the region amid a territorial row with China, a government source said Monday.

The government plans to station similar GSDF units on Ishigaki and Miyako islands in Okinawa Prefecture, the source said, adding that about 400 members each will be assigned to the units on the three islands.

The government is aiming to complete the deployment in the fiscal year through March 2019, according to the source.

On Amami-Oshima, which lies between the southern tip of Kyushu and Okinawa's main island, the town of Setouchi has asked for a unit of the Self-Defense Forces to be stationed in the municipality.

The government plans to send Parliamentary Senior Vice Defense Minister Ryota Takeda to Amami-Oshima on Wednesday to exchange views with local officials, the source said.

The GSDF units under consideration for the Kagoshima and Okinawa islands are expected to be "first responders" in the event that an armed group lands on a Japanese-administered remote island in the region.

They are also expected to engage in relief efforts swiftly in the event of a large-scale natural disaster.

In its long-term defense guidelines and medium-term defense program approved by the Cabinet late last year, the government referred specifically to enhancing its defense of the country's southwestern region by permanently stationing SDF units in places where no unit is currently stationed.

The Defense Ministry has earmarked 600 billion yen for related expenses in the current fiscal year from April.

Japan and China have been involved in a territorial spat over the Senkaku Islands in Okinawa Prefecture. China claims the Japanese-administered, uninhabited islands and calls them Diaoyu.

Copyright 2014 Kyodo News International.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
