
City of Fairhope.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 1:42 pm | Updated: 8:02 pm, Thu May 22, 2014.

FAIRHOPE, Ala. — The city faces huge costs to repair damage done to its sewer plant and other locations during the April 29 storm that dropped historic rainfall amounts in Baldwin County.

Last week the city council approved an engineering contract with Hutchinson, Moore and Rauch at a not-to-exceed cost of $37,000 for emergency repairs at the plant. Mayor Tim Kant told the council that the full repair could cost $200,000-300,000.

The city also faces repairs on the sewer line that runs under U.S. 98 north of Ala. 104. A cast iron sewer pipe washed away at that location, where Fly Creek runs under the road.

“I don't have all the numbers in front of me, other than an initial number from Volkert that said it could cost as much as $200,000 to replace the existing line,” Kant said, also noting that he was wary of replacing the line in the same spot since it washed away relatively easily.

The city has met with the Natural Resources Conservation Service and FEMA to see what kind of disaster coverage it qualifies for.

Council president Jack Burrell said it is time for the city to consider hiring a civil engineer.

“I was a little bothered by the fact that we had some small failures in some of our systems,whether it was a hole in a pipe or collapse of a road, or a rusted pipe that led to the collapse of a culvert,” he said. “I think it is time to start looking at it.

Burrell also said he believes the city needs a comprehensive stormwater management plan.

The city recognized Alabama Municipal Electric Authority Scholarship winners at its council meeting last week: Fairhope High School students Ashley Jones, Mattie Simmons and Philip Street. Simmons, who plans to study at the University of Alabama, was present at the meeting.

The city also voted unanimously voted to accept the streets in the Spring Lake Subdivision for maintenance.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
