
Nomination of the party leaders, who have been denied Assembly ticket, to the legislative council has now become a hot topic among political circles.

The race for MLC posts is hotting up in the BJP. Senior party leader S. Veerraju from the region is tipped to be the top contender for the MLC post. There is a talk that the party has plans to 'reward’ Mr. Veerraju with MLC post as he has ‘sacrificed’ his candidature though the BJP got two Assembly seats from the Godavari districts. He has been serving the party for last 15 years. The BJP fielded A. Satyanarayana from Rajahmundry city and P. Manikyala Rao frm Tadepalligudem.

According to sources in the TDP and the BJP, there was a broad understanding between the parties regarding MLC posts. The TDP agreed to earmark three MLC seats to the BJP. Mr. Veerraju hails from Kapu community, which was showered with promises during polls. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu assured them that due recognition would be given to Kapu community.

About 10 MLC posts have been vacant (in combined Andhra Pradesh) for sometime now as local body elections are not conducted for more than three and half years. Now that local body elections were over, these MLC posts would have to be filled. Exact number of MLCs through local bodies for residuary State of Andhra Pradesh is not clear.

Another theory going around in political circles is that the TDP would give chance to its leaders in first go. Later, it would allot berths to the poll partner in 2015. One-third of the total strength would retire in 2015, a senior TDP leader said.

According to party sources, former MLC Y.V.B. Rajendraprasad, an aspirant for MLA ticket from the Penamaluru Assembly seat, former Kaikaluru MLA Jayamangala Venkata Ramana, Muttamsetti Krishna Rao and Bachula Arjunudu are the four who had been promised MLC seat to placate them before elections.

The residuary State of Andhra Pradesh would have a Legislative Council with a strength of about 50 MLCs. One-third of it would be filled through local bodies, another one-third through MLAs, graduates council etc.
