
TheyÂ  say “there’s a sucker born of every minute”. Except in this case the sucker happens to be a Kenyan taxpayer. That’s what AG Githu Muigai’s “legal opinion” advising that the state pay the Anglo Leasing bloodsuckers says. It’s what the Budget and Appropriations Committee chair Mutava Musyimi believes.

Fortunately, that won’t fly if MP Kabando wa Kabando, and his colleagues in Jubilee and CORD, have their way. To my absolute delight, the Mukurwe-ini MP led Jubilee MPs in a lyrical chant — “can’t pay, won’t pay”. It was refreshing to see the regime’s own MPs poke their bosses in the eye. It’s clear the ghost of former anti-graft czar John Githongo has returned to haunt the country.

Mr Githongo, the anti-corruption czar under President Mwai Kibaki, uncovered the entire rotten mess. Under threat, he took refuge in Britain. I know the details because I was Mr Githongo’s legal counsel. The Public Accounts Committee, then under opposition leader Uhuru Kenyatta, spent several days with Mr Githongo and me in London taking testimony.

Mr Kenyatta’s PAC report returned an indictment of guilty against the shady contractors and their state co-conspirators.Â  Some of Mr Kibaki’s senior ministers fell like fig [mugumo] trees. Shockingly, a number were “cleared” and returned to the inner sanctum of power. That’s why the matter of legal culpability stalled. With the passage of time, the cartels have re-emerged to claim their pound of flesh.

In a rare show of unity, MPs from across the political divide are saying “nyet”. TNA, URP, and CORD MPs appear united in jettisoning the half-cooked plot of their leaders to take the taxpayers to the cleaners. This is why these mandarins were elected in the first place — to put the country, the taxpayer, and the national interests above thieving cabals. What’s particularly surprising to me is why Mr Musyimi, a man who knows the nefarious nature of the Anglo Leasing scams, can preside over a process to legitimise such thefts. I can forgive Majority Leader Aden Duale for committing the same sin. Mr Duale is a bloviator who is more concerned with pleasing his bosses than doing his job.

But President Kenyatta needs to recall his work on Anglo Leasing when he chaired the PAC. He impressed me then as a leader who wanted to get to the bottom of the matter, and prevent a recurrence. In fact, he directly told me in London that such scams had a long history in Kenya. He seemed genuine as he vowed to end them and punish those responsible. President Kenyatta has repeatedly railed against corruption since his ascendance to the pinnacle of power last year.

I am extremely disappointed President Kenyatta has buckled to the Anglo Leasing extortionists and agreed to pay them taxpayer money as ransom. The scammers are like terrorists. They are beasts that can’t — and mustn’t — be rewarded.

It’s clear that the Anglo Leasing scammers live in the shadows of civilisation. They extort the state and intimidate it with threats of retaliation. It doesn’t matter such threats are done in courts or in the halls of arbitration. Kenya shouldn’t allow a gun to be held to its head by merchants of deception. Nor should the AG give weak-kneed legal advice, or fail to vigorously contest bad-faith suits.

This is what I say. Instead of giving taxpayer money away, Kenya should sue the nefarious authors of the scams. Expose each and every one of them to the sunlight. Let the public know who did what, and was paid how much by whom. The sunlight is the most effective disinfectant.
