
- MSP was selected for its robust technology and suite of integrated solutions to support efficiency, regulatory compliance and a better borrower experience.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --  Black Knight Financial Services announced that 360 Mortgage Group , LLC, a privately owned mortgage banking company based in Austin, Texas, which offers retail, wholesale, correspondent and co-issue lending and servicing, has signed a seven-year contract to implement MSP®, Black Knight's industry-leading mortgage and consumer loan servicing platform, to support its expanding business. MSP is a single, comprehensive system used by financial institutions to manage all servicing processes, including loan boarding, payment processing, escrow administration and more. The system gives servicers the ability to meet all mortgage and consumer loan servicing needs for any size portfolio.

"MSP offers a more robust servicing technology to better support our expanding mortgage business," said Norton Wells, vice president of Servicing Operations for 360 Mortgage Group . "The combination of MSP's innovative technology and attention to regulatory detail will give us the ability to provide accurate information and services more quickly to the borrowers we serve. The Black Knight suite of products and services supports 360 Mortgage Group's commitment to being best-in-class."

Black Knight Financial Services, a Fidelity National Financial ( FNF ) company, is the mortgage and finance industries' leading provider of integrated technology, data and analytics solutions that facilitate and automate many of the business processes across the mortgage life cycle.

Black Knight Financial Services is committed to being the premier business partner  that lenders and servicers rely onto achieve their strategic goals, realize greater success and better serve their customers by delivering best-in-class technology, services and insight with a relentless commitment to excellence, innovation, integrity and leadership. For more information on Black Knight Financial Services, please visit www.bkfs.com .
