
The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and the California Highway Patrol also are participating in the campaign, which runs to June 1.

Better buckle up!

The Long Beach Police Department on Monday kicked off its “Click It or Ticket” campaign reminding people to wear their seat belts.

Officers will be out in force over the next few weeks cracking down on motorists who are not wearing seat belts, the department said in a statement. The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and California Highway Patrol also are participating in the campaign, which runs through June 1.

Even with a seat belt usage rate of 97 percent, California still has 800,000 or more who aren’t buckling up, police said. In a crash, they stand a 50 percent greater chance of being killed than those who have buckled in.

According to new data released from the Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, vehicle-related fatalities are up nationwide for the first time in five years. In 2012, 10,335 people who were killed in motor vehicle crashes were not wearing their seat belts. In 2012, 61 percent of passenger vehicle occupants killed from 6 p.m. to 5:59 a.m. were not wearing their seat belts.

The cost for a seat belt violation in California for unbuckled occupants over age 16 is a minimum of $161 for a first offense. The penalty fees for failing to properly buckle up any child under the age of 16 is a minimum $490 per child for a first offense, plus a violation point will be added to the driver’s record. If the parent is not in the car, the driver gets the ticket.

For more traffic safety information, visit the California Office of Traffic Safety at ots.ca.gov or the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Click It or Ticket mobilization, nhtsa.gov/ciot .

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Register publications without any notification or payment.
