
QUEZON CITY -- A total of 1,916 have so far signed the online signature campaign calling on President Benigno Aquino III and the legislators to pass the Freedom of Information (FOI) Bill.

The campaign was launched by press freedom advocates on May 14.

The group called "Right to Know Right Now! Network" and affiliated groups encouraged the Filipinos to sign the campaign, which will be submitted to Aquino a week before his fifth State of the Nation Address (Sona) slated in July this year.

Ed Lingao, multimedia director of Philippine Center for Investigative Journalism (PCIJ), during the three-day seminar on "Governance By the Numbers: Investigative Reporting and Numeracy" at the Cocoon Boutique Hotel in Quezon City, said the bill, if not passed in the 16th Congress this year, will have to start anew in the next Congress, considering the other pressing house bills that have yet to be tackled.

He said a technical working group of the House Committee on Public Information and Mass Media is still in the process of consolidating 44 versions of the FOI bill to come up with a reference bill for deliberation in the committee chaired by Representative Jorge T. Almonte.

The Senate passed on third and final reading Senate Bill 1733, also known as People's FOI Act, or "an act implementing the people's right to information and the constitutional policies of full public disclosure and honesty in the public service."

Senator Grace Poe sponsored the Senate bill.

In a report, FOI bill has long been stalled in the Senate for more than two decades while it has been pending in the House for more than 17 years now.

Under the measure, Filipino citizens will have the right to request and be granted access to records or information that is under the control of government unless the information requested would jeopardize national security, foreign relations, law enforcement operations, trade and economic secrets, individual right's to privacy, privileged information as considered in judicial proceedings or information made in executive sessions of Congress and those that are covered by presidential privilege.

An online signee Charlie Señase said: "What's open governance (transparency and accountability) for without access to information? Answer: Hypocrisy! The saying that 'truth shall set us free' has yet to dwell in our hearts. Let's approve FOI Bill, pronto!"

Local legislator Councilor Mabel Sunga Acosta said she's throwing her support for this online campaign. Acosta is the author of the localized version of the proposed measure.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
