
Share This Story!

Cronies may control production of medical marijuana.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Florida’s legislators pretended to be helping children who suffer from intractable epilepsy. The real objective was to capture the market share for their crony friends in the huge marijuana business that is heading to Florida.

Upon closer reading of SB 1030, the “Charlotte’s Web” bill, it becomes clear that it sets the foundation to hand over Florida’s burgeoning marijuana industry to a select few people. We have an anti-competitive platform under the guise of legislation.

The bill requires that the growing, processing, wholesaling, distributing and retailing of the low level-CBD marijuana plants must all be performed by a single entity, referred to as a dispensing organization. Under the law, there can be no more than five dispensing organizations statewide. I predict that there will be only one. This anti-competitive business model is referred to as “vertical integration.” Ironically, vertical integration is exactly what the Republican majority argued against when insisting that the craft brewery industry must use a three-tier level of distribution to preserve competitive markets. This is what is known as hypocrisy.

I suggest that this anti-competitive platform was accomplished purposefully to position a few crony capitalists to gain the market share of the marijuana business following the expected passage of Amendment 2 to the Florida Constitution this November. I further suggest, as I have been stating in my campaign appearances around the state, that this was the endgame plan all along.  A 30-year requirement to qualify for market access is unprecedented in any industry that I am aware of and certainly has no rational basis to serve as a prerequisite to grow “weed.” Shame on all of them. This new industry that could create prosperity for so many Floridians will be funneled to a few.

My heart goes out to the families that pleaded for compassionate use. The access they seek could have been made by passage of the Cathy Jordan Medical Cannabis Act (SB 962). When I wrote the original Cathy Jordan Medical Cannabis Act in 2012 I purposefully included safeguards against anti-competition like we see today. The Republican leadership refused to advance the Cathy Jordan Act again this year. Yet it embraced the commercial market grab of SB 1030.

This is this type of politicking and cronyism that inspired me to run for Florida attorney general. I want to be in a position to protect the interests of all Floridians when the Legislature has to meet its mandate to create law after the passage of Amendment 2. I do not trust any of the establishment candidates to protect the will of the voters where such a huge and profitable market is involved.

On behalf of the parents who came to Tallahassee to plead for access to that which is available in 21 other states and D.C., I’m calling “foul” on our Florida legislators.
