
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

LSU President F. King Alexander warned that the university's petroleum engineering program will either have to start turning students away or risk its accreditation if the school doesn't get the funding it needs to hire more faculty.

Louisiana State University's petroleum engineering program has a faculty-to-student ratio that is so high, it might come close to losing its accreditation, according to the LSU's President F. King Alexander.

LSU's president said that proportion of 82 students for every one faculty member in the flagship university's petroleum engineering department is cause for concern. "We're close to admitting more students into the program than we can educate," said Alexander.

If the ratio becomes worse, LSU may have to start turning students away from the program, despite a state demand for more petroleum engineers, said Alexander. He said he's worried the accrediting organization for such engineering programs -- called ABET -- will find problems with the proportion of faculty to students that's any larger than the current one.

"He's right to be concerned. ... [But] we don't tell someone like LSU how many professors they have to have," said Danielle Baron, director of global communications and marketing for ABET.

LSU and Louisiana's other public universities have had a difficult time hiring more faculty because of the dramatic cuts to higher education elected officials have imposed over the last few years. A recent report from the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities found the state had reduced its higher education budget more than almost any other state in the country over the last six years.

So Alexander was raising the alarm over the petroleum engineering program, primarily as a way to advocate for more higher education money at a Louisiana Senate Finance Committee meeting Monday (May 19).

He wants the Louisiana Legislature to include some targeted funding for high-demand job fields, like petroleum engineering, in the budget for state universities and colleges next year. The extra money would allow LSU to hire as many as four more faculty members for the petroleum engineering program, he said.

Gov. Bobby Jindal and House Speaker Chuck Kleckley , R-Lake Charles, are pushing a $40 million workforce development funding package -- called Workforce and Innovation for a Stronger Economy (WISE) fund -- for which Louisiana's public universities would compete. The money is supposed to be used exclusively for programs like petroleum engineering, where Louisiana is seeing a great demand for workers.

. . . .

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
