
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Huntsville Board of Education President David Blair, left, and incumbent Paul Sanford square off in the June 3 Republican primary for the Alabama Senate District 7 seat covering most of Huntsville plus Meridianville, Moores Mill and Hazel Green.

HUNTSVILLE, Alabama -- Paul Sanford, a Republican who has represented Huntsville in the Alabama Senate since 2009, is trying for another term in 2014. He faces David Blair, currently president of the Huntsville Board of Education, in the June 3 GOP primary. The winner will meet the Democratic nominee -- either Rhonda "Rose" Gaskin or Mitchell Howie -- in the November general election.

Education: Double major in electrical engineering and biology, master's degree in physics - all from Memphis State University.

Married to wife Jammie; two children, Skylar, 20; and Samantha, 18.

Occupation: Director of missile integration and tests at Miltec, a Huntsville defense and aerospace company. Member and current president of Huntsville Board of Education. Served on school board from 2000-04 before stepping down. Ran again in 2010, beating Emily McDowell Elam in a runoff for the District 2 seat.

Issues: Blair says Huntsville needs to start preparing now to make sure Redstone Arsenal is a winner in the next round of BRAC military restructuring, while also working to "diversify the economic base."

If elected, Blair said he would like to see schools across Alabama adopt some of the innovative ideas that originated with Huntsville City Schools. At the same time, he said, public school systems should have the freedom to test "best practices" that seem to be working for private schools and charter schools.

Transportation is another concern. Blair contends Sanford has not been aggressive enough about seeking state road money. A recent $250 million road construction partnership between Huntsville and the state was championed by Mayor Tommy Battle, Gov. Robert Bentley and Department of Transportation Director John Cooper. To cover its share of the costs, the city raised sales taxes from 8 percent to 9 percent. "In my mind," said Blair, "all of us are paying an extra 1-cent sales tax because Paul didn't do his job."

Education: Graduated from Huntsville High School in 1985, Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., in 1991.

Married to wife Danielle; two children, Chase, 18; and Ryan, 15.

Occupation: Owner and operator of Little Paul's Barbecue on Madison Street. Sanford won a June 2009 special election to fill the unexpired state Senate term of Parker Griffith, who resigned his seat after being elected to Congress. Re-elected to a full term in 2010. Chairs the Senate Job Creation and Economic Development committee.

Issues:  Sanford says Huntsville needs to continue to diversify its industrial base to shield the community from any future federal cutbacks or shutdowns. A "highly qualified, well-educated" workforce will help make Huntsville and Madison County an attractive place for new and expanding businesses, he said.

Sanford also said this area needs to "stay in front of basic infrastructure needs" and pledged to continue sponsoring and supporting legislation that helps move Alabama "in a positive direction."

On the "Issues" section of his campaign website, Sanford touts his sponsorship of bills to create a new treatment option for children with serious neurological and epileptic disorders; exempt health savings accounts from state income tax; establish an independent Alabama Tax Tribunal to hear tax assessment appeal cases; create a "fundamental right of a parent to direct his or her child's education, upbringing, and care;" save money by shifting required election-related advertising from newspapers to the web; and consolidate the state Departments of Labor and Industrial Relations.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
