
The 2014 meeting of the Codington County Board of Equalization convened at 1:15 p.m., Tuesday, April 8, 2014, in the Commissioners Chambers in the Codington County Courthouse. Board members present were George Heller, Tyler McElhany, Myron Johnson, Elmer Brinkman, and Brenda Hanten; Chairman Brinkman, presiding. All Board members signed their County Board of Equalization oath. Director of Equalization, Shawna Constant, gave opening remarks.

Motion by Hanten, second by Heller, to approve the applications for renewable energy resources, as recommended by the Director of Equalization; upon vote of the Board all present voted aye; motion carried.

Motion by Johnson, second by McElhany, to approve the applications for freeze on assessments of dwellings of disabled persons and senior citizens, as recommended by the Director of Equalization, all present voted aye; motion carried.

Motion by Johnson, second by McElhany, to approve exemption status on properties which qualify for Disabled Veteran Exemption, all present voted aye; motion carried.

Motion by Hanten, second by McElhany, to approve the applications for annual tax exempt status of a private organization, as recommended by the Director of Equalization, all present voted aye; motion carried.

Director of Equalization, Shawna Constant, presented the Board with the following list of property owners who applied for flooded farmland adjustments to their property values. These applications were not acted upon by the Local Board of Equalization and therefore need action by the County Board. Motion by Hanten, second by McElhany, to approve the following flooded farmland values per the applications submitted by the property owners and as recommended by the Director of Equalization; all present voted aye; motion carried.

There being no further business to come before this Board a motion was made by Johnson, second by McElhany, to adjourn as a 2014 County Board of Equalization at 1:35 p.m.; all present voted aye; motion carried.

Codington County does not discriminate on the basis of color, national origin, sex, religion, age, or disability in employment or the provision of service.

Published once at the total approximate cost of $148.15.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness acounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
