
Evil Sarah Smyth plundered former RAF bomb disposal expert James Stevenson's account after stealing his bank card at Carrickstone House Care Home in Cumbernauld.

A callous care worker stole a dying great grandfather’s bank card to fund a spending spree.

Sarah Smyth blew James Stevenson’s savings on clothes and trips to the hairdressers, the Daily Record reported.

Former RAF bomb disposal hero James, who was blind, died before Smyth was brought to justice.

His daughter Carol said: “Everyone is totally horrified by this.

Smyth, 24, preyed on James, 82, when he went into Carrickstone House Care Home in Cumbernauld for a few weeks for rehabilitation after suffering two broken thighs.

She stole James’s bank card and pin number from his wallet and lifted more than £2000 from his account in the days before he died.

Carol, 47, from Cumbernauld, added: “My sister went to take out £20 for dad one day and the machine said the total amount available for withdrawal had been exceeded for that day.

“When we checked the account, we saw all these different transactions that none of us knew anything about.

Smyth, from Cumbernauld, stole James’s card and pin number on April 11.

The retired plumber and gas heating engineer died from a pulmonary embolism on April 21.

Carol added: “We are not saying she killed him but it certainly put a lot of stress on my dad. Sometimes, the full amount available from a cash machine – £200 – was taken out. Other times, she was using the card in River Island or at the hair salon.

“My dad was sharp as a tack so he knew what was going on.

At Airdrie Sheriff Court, Smyth admitted fraud and stealing the card and pin number. She is due to be sentenced on Wednesday.

Four Seasons Health Care, who run Carrickstone House, have repaid the stolen cash to James’s family.

A spokesman said: “We are deeply saddened and disappointed that a care worker in our home would try to take advantage of one of the vulnerable people she was employed to care for.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
