
There has been 0 new or updated articles since your last visit Tue, 26 Aug 2014 08:24 .

The Office of the President has published the official photo of the President of Malta, Marie-Louise Colerio Preca.

The publication comes six weeks after she took office.

There has been a mixed reaction on the social media on the photo, and an ongoing debate is taking place on the Department of Information Facebook page, where the photo has been uploaded.

Many have commented about the excessive use of photoshop and other computer tricks to remove all the defects, with one commentator going as far as describing the President as looking like a plastic doll.

Others have said that Ms Coleiro Preca does not look natural in the photo, and that it is not suitable for a head of state. She looks like a 20-year-old woman, not the President, one commented. One commentator said that some comments had been deleted.

The more positive comments - less in number, it must be admitted at the time of uploading this piece - spoke about the beauty of the President and about how smart she looks.

What's the problem with a bit of Photoshop use? It's common practice now never to publish a photograph of anyone unless it has been through Photoshop. This very paper uses a heavily Photoshopped photo of a certain blogger which is so extreme it comes close to making her look female, and it certainly looks nothing like the person in real life.

One may observe that, contrary to the common adage, you can please some of the people some of the time but you cannot please all the people all the time.

That is the official photo. So be it. Now let us leave the President get along with her duties.

I think that only people that do not use makeup or comb their hair can comment on this.

Malta is the most opinionated nation in the world, and it stems from jealousy.

The President is a very attractive woman! A very fitting official photo! Had I been the president I would have had my official picture photoshopped too! Just slightly,and so would anyone else!

Very nice official picture of the President. Nice smile too.
