
The grant is part of the Small Town Economic Assistance Program, Gov. Dannel Malloy said in a statement Monday. The project will provide a safe pathway for people to walk throughout the center of town, the statement said.

A total of 28 towns won grants to fund a variety of economic development, community conservation and quality-of-life projects.

State Rep. Gail Lavielle (R-143) and other legislators applauded the grant.

“Connecting the train station with the center of town has been a longstanding objective for Wilton,” said Lavielle who worked with state Sen. Toni Boucher and state Rep. Tom O’Dea to ensure Wilton’s inclusion in the final grant package.

“In recent years, the connection has become even more of a necessity with the construction of Trackside and the development of Wilton Commons and new housing off River Road. The new walkway will make it possible for everyone who lives, works, dines, or shops in Wilton – including commuters, town center residents, teens, and seniors – to walk between shops, restaurants, offices, and the station without having to go far out of their way or risk their safety on busy roads. It will add a whole new dimension to our town."

The Wilton Station Walkway is a planned hard surface walkway and pedestrian bridge over the Norwalk River connecting – at one end – the Wilton train station, Wilton Commons, a multitenant office building, and Trackside with – at the other end – Wilton Center and several residential communities immediately south of the center of town.

Currently, to get from Wilton Station to Wilton Center (a distance of only about 500 feet), pedestrians must walk a circuitous route of nearly one mile along steeply sloped roadways and a heavily traveled section of Route 7.

According to town officials, when completed, the walkway will enhance access to both the town center and the railroad station, and represents a component of a larger plan to connect public transportation to the Norwalk River Valley Trail. The walkway is expected to encourage and increase rail ridership, while reducing personal vehicle usage.

State Sen. Toni Boucher (R-26) said, "This is a return investment into the community that will help stimulate the economic development this area needs."

Enter your username or email below, then check your inbox. We'll email you instructions for resetting your password.
