
Time will tell if the Minnesota "Unsession" will live up to its promise of faster, more efficient and easier-to-deal-with state government.

The drive this legislative session to undo burdensome laws, regulations and practices that hinder government efficiency has made some progress, often without much fanfare or media attention.

Between ideas from Gov. Mark Dayton and more added by legislators, total Unsession measures signed into law should exceed 1,000, the governor's point person on the initiative, Tony Sertich, told us. Dayton has 14 days from the session's end to sign the last of the bills sent him by lawmakers.

Reform in the environmental permitting process is key among the Unsession promises, and developments this week amplify its importance. A measure to help ensure that an estimated 11,000 of the 15,000 permit requests the state receives from businesses each year are completed in 90 days or less -- with most remaining permits completed in less than 150 days -- was signed into law last week.

Days later, the state received disappointing jobs data, with Minnesota marking its fourth straight month of weak employment numbers in April, a Pioneer Press report said, as employers shed 4,200 jobs.

To business advocates, time saved means more opportunities that ultimately put Minnesotans to work.

When Dayton took office in 2011, he made streamlining the environmental permitting process a top priority, a statement from his office says. Previously, businesses in Minnesota often were forced to wait months, and sometimes even years, to have their permits approved by state agencies.

Significantly, there's been bipartisan agreement on many Unsession measures, the permitting reforms passing in the Senate by a vote of 61-1 and in the House 92-39.

The bipartisan votes show that "when you're not arguing the political ideologies of more or less, bigger or smaller, red or blue -- and you focus on what can make things better and include everybody in the discussion -- you can get good work done," said Sertich, who also serves as commissioner of the Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board.

Also significant, he said, is that the Unsession has "put in place of way of doing this" -- a model for more such work.

"The first time you do something like this you're really going to get a lot of the low-hanging fruit," he admits. "But there's an opportunity now, with everybody buying into this idea, that they can take another swing at this in two years and get more work done." There would be time then, he said, to "have some of the more difficult, more complex conversations."

Also under the Unsession umbrella is legislation that eases tax preparation, with state conformity to federal tax provisions, making it simpler to transfer data from the federal form to the state's.

In addition, the administration's Unsession package included an executive order implementing a plain-language policy in the executive branch. It requires writing -- in terms commonly understood by the public -- in short, complete sentences and presenting information in easy-to-understand formats.

The initiative will have broad implications, Sertich told us, "saving Minnesotans time, money and hassle when they interact with state government."

The administration touts examples including a new mobile website launched this month by the Department of Natural Resources to provide the state's half-million anglers with fishing information in a user-friendly format. A message from the governor's office also noted that more than 2,000 state employees have received plain-language training and that more sessions are scheduled.

The governor's office will be releasing a complete list of Unsession measures within a few weeks after the session's conclusion.

Such work "may not grab news headlines, but it is very important," Dayton said in his State of the State message last month. "It is what citizens should rightfully expect from their government. It is what I expect."

This and more we need if the costs of government are to be reasonable, and sustainable.
