
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

There is a quiet revolution taking place in education. One day in early January, a million teachers downloaded lesson plans and ideas from other teachers, principally through the TES Connect website (full disclosure: I am chairman of the company’s advisory board). Of those downloads, something over 70 per cent were user generated , created by teachers for teachers.

People used to think of teaching as a somewhat solitary affair, that teachers protected the best of their lesson plans, and once the classroom door closed they were very much on their own.

Recently we’ve discovered that this simply isn’t true.

There have always been subject specific groups who generously shared best practice, but the recent phenomenon of sharing online has, over the past five years, really taken off.

We are also witnessing another transformation, one in which for those entering the profession, the skilled use of technology is an entirely natural way of life.

These are precisely the sort of confident and skilled teachers every country in the world needs, and Ireland just happens to have struck a rich vein. And not a moment too soon because it coincides with welcome developments in the creation of an educational infrastructure which dignifies both this new generation of teachers and their students.

The Department of Communications, Energy and Natural Resources has worked extensively with the Department of Education and Skills and HEAnet on the provision of a 100MB broadband connection to every second-level school. This programme has been successful in providing high-quality broadband connection right to the school door. The next step is for similar internal connectivity to become available to every part of each school.

It is crucial that  teachers and learners have genuinely pervasive access, and that a range of mobile devices are properly supported as part of the process.

As we now know, the advent of high-speed broadband opens the door to a faster, richer, more interactive and more informative internet experience than has ever previously been possible.

Within education, the streaming of videos, plays, movies, animation, documentaries, concerts and so forth can now be seamlessly and vividly incorporated into day-to-day teaching practice.

But despite the opportunities that are opening up I worry that many of these recent and valuable developments in technology will be held back by a natural, and in some cases understandable, educational conservatism. It’s quite possible these fears will get in the way of the type of ambitions that could allow Ireland to become an educational exemplar to the rest of the world.

What’s certain is that we’re watching a massively disruptive evolution that’s impacting every sphere of education, possibly for the first time in 100 years.

A fair number of people are finding much of this very uncomfortable; on balance it’s not only remarkable but it chimes perfectly with a nation that has always given  the process of teaching and learning the respect it deserves.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
