
A 62-year-old Middlesbrough man was hospitalised with serious injuries to his head and jaw after allegedly being attacked in his own home.

Albert Maughan’s shaken partner told the Gazette how she found him on the ground covered in blood and ran to get help.

James Raymond Baxter, 24, of The Garth, Coulby Newham , is due to appear at court on Tuesday morning accused of attempted murder in connection with the incident.

He is also facing charges of possessing a Class B drug and burglary with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm.

Police were called to a house on Weastell Street, in Linthorpe , at 6.30pm on Friday, where they discovered 62-year-old Albert Maughan with serious injuries to his head and jaw.

Mr Maughan, known as ‘Albey’ to his friends and family, was taken to Middlesbrough’s James Cook University Hospital where he received 14 staples to his head and neck.

Yesterday, his shaken partner of 19 years, Allison Hodge, 41, said: “I had just got out the bath when I heard a commotion outside.

“The next thing I remember was going into the kitchen and seeing Albey on the ground covered in blood. I ran out the front to get help.

Mum-of-three Allison added: “I can’t stop shaking and I haven’t slept. I keep having visions of Albey laid on the ground. It’s petrifying to think this has happened in our own home.

A neighbour, Pam Shawhulme, described Mr Maughan as “the nicest man you could ever meet” who “wouldn’t do a bad thing to anyone”.

“We’ve lived next door to Albey since November and he is a lovely person,” said the mum-of-four. “I just don’t know how anyone could do this to him.

“It was all a bit of a blur, but the attack has left us terrified. We heard screaming and when I went to see what was going on, I could see Allison covered in blood. She was screaming that someone was attacking Albey so I rang 999.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Tell us about it and, if possible, send us a picture.

The Evening Gazette is read by more adults than any other newspaper on sale in the Teesside area, with 95,949 average readership and 36,986 copies purchased each day, providing extensive coverage across the region.

206,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking for a job.

205,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking for articles for sale in the classified section.

187,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking to rent or buy a house or flat.

146,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when planning entertainment and leisure activities.

146,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking to buy a new/used car.

To advertise with the Evening Gazette please contact us .

Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jan 12 - Jun 12).

More than 31% of GazetteLive users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating their receptiveness to effective online advertising.

GazetteLive reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 82% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.

Chris was appointed editor of the Evening Gazette in January 2012. He is also a former Gazette news editor. Chris has more than 20 years experience as a journalist and has previously worked in senior positions in Newcastle, Exeter and Nottingham.
