
Labor national secretary George Wright.

Labor's fundraising campaign to hire an editor for its online news service has hit its target of $95,000. Applications are now open. The only catch is, you'll have to live in Canberra.

National secretary George Wright broke the news in an email to supporters today: "We did it! The Labor Herald is back because of you. We asked you to help us raise enough to hire an experienced news editor for our new online news service and you delivered.

"This week we'll advertise for our new editor. Here's the job ad we'll be putting up. If you know anyone who might be right for the position please let them know about it.

"With a bit of luck we'll have someone on deck by July, but we'll keep you posted on how it's going. I believe the return of the Labor Herald is a really important initiative, and I'm grateful that so many people chose to own a piece of it."

The Australian Labor Party is seeking an experienced and enthusiastic editor to produce and direct quality online news and feature stories for Australian Labor’s official website, and other digital outlets.

The successful applicant will be responsible for writing, commissioning and presenting a complete news, features, commentary and information service to our direct audience of around 500,000 via email and social media; your work will often reach more than one million people.

Our current audience is informed about politics, but would like to be more so. They respond to causes but also seek more in-depth information relating to policy, the issues of the day, and to forge a closer connection to those responsible for the implementation of policy.

It is our aim to revitalise our content, creating a vibrant and innovative media presence, impacting not just on our supporter base, but on broader Australian society.

With this in mind, you will be expected to write, commission and produce stories that help to grow what is already a strong audience, working to clear targets for audience numbers, stories written and stories broken.

The right candidate will have experience in online media, be aware of current techniques to grow and engage audiences, understand creating visual and interactive experiences, and forming a lively, involving platform for debate. You will be tenacious, enjoy working to tight deadlines and have a commitment to quality editorial content including short and timely news stories, longer length feature pieces and commentary and will have the capacity to illuminate content via information-rich graphics, video and photography.

The position is Canberra-based although another location may be considered for the right candidate.

You will be working closely with Labor’s executive and administration to ensure all content is relevant, timely, occasionally provocative, but never dull. Support staff will include a graphic designer and a digital communications assistant.

Sign up to the AdNews  newsletter , like us on  Facebook  or follow us on  Twitter  for breaking stories and campaigns throughout the day.

The AdNews enewsletter, brings you the latest advertising and media news direct to your inbox! Become a member and get the daily newsletter free!
