
“If you like your healthcare plan, you can keep it, period.” President Barack Obama has said these words over and over the past several years. His signature piece of legislation, the Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as Obamacare, has again become a hot topic in Massachusetts. Modeled after the Massachusetts “Romneycare” plan, President Obama and congressional Democrats took a state solution, modified it, and then required all 50 states — Massachusetts included — to conform.

The results have not been pretty. The failed Obamacare website became both the brunt of late-night jokes and the topic of serious debate on Capitol Hill. The medical device industry, much of which is based in Massachusetts, has been forced to endure a new tax, for which consumers inevitably must pick up part of the tab.

In Massachusetts, Obamacare has harmed three main sets of victims. The first are the people who were kicked off their previous health care plans once Obamacare was implemented. According to the news site Politico, Gov. Deval Patrick “described the people receiving those bare-bones insurance plans as ‘free riders:’ ‘Without real insurance that’s there when you need it, you just become another so-called free rider,’ he said.” But prior to Obamacare, the “free riders” Patrick described at least had some coverage.

The second set of victims includes those now paying a higher deductible for their services that haven’t noticeably changed. These people are paying more out of their pocket, often times for the same services they received before Obamacare.

The third set of Obamacare victims, similarly, are those who are now paying higher overall rates for the same coverage. The plans haven’t noticeably changed but their monthly bills have become higher during the process. For many, due to Obamacare, the cost of healthcare is increasing.

All throughout the process, many will tell you that they lost access to their preferred doctor or healthcare provider. Even if you didn’t fall under one of the categories, you were still a victim.

Elected officials lost time and prioritized poorly in ignoring economic recovery to focus on taking a model that worked in Massachusetts, throwing it away, and adopting a federal model that cost more, offered less and has a poor track record. The time lost during those troubling years of economic downturn was not spent devising policies that would lead to job growth, but rather on a plan that is now hobbling along at best. The lost time focusing on Obamacare and trying to fix the troubled program has made us all victims.

Despite many decisions being made at the federal level, Massachusetts lawmakers have also had the opportunity to take key votes on important aspects of the “Affordable Healthcare Act.” The Massachusetts House and Senate voted on ideas such as studying the impact of Obamacare before enacting it, a proposal which ultimately failed. Another effort to study the impact of the medical device tax on the Massachusetts economy was also defeated by majorities on Beacon Hill.

Page 2 of 2 - Just last week, while debating a $144 million spending bill, Massachusetts senators rejected a Republican-led proposal to demand the Patrick administration request a waiver from the federal government before spending any more money on the state’s failed Obamacare website. According to State House News Service, Senate Minority Leader Bruce Tarr, R-Gloucester, “argued it was pointless to continue to create a new website to replace one that already worked, and was previously held up as a model across the nation.” Tarr’s waiver failed along a party line vote, with support from just the four Republicans, while all Senate Democrats who voted were opposed.

Withholding funds from the Connector would have been a bold step. With three sets of victims, a more expensive federal website, a Massachusetts model that worked and was thrown away for a troubled federal program, what’s necessary now is a waiver followed by an apology from Beacon Hill lawmakers.

Paul D. Craney is the executive director of Massachusetts Fiscal Alliance. Follow him on Twitter at @PaulDiegoCraney.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
