
This piece by Jesus Vazquez of Ramona High School in Riverside recently took second place in “Emerging Artists 2014: High School Show” at the American Museum of Ceramic Art in Pomona.

Published: May 18, 2014 Updated:  11:24 p.m.

It was a cracked plate that almost ended up in the scrap heap.

Instead of throwing it away, 17-year-old Jesus Vazquez fashioned it into an award-winning piece of ceramic art.

Vazquez, a junior at Ramona High School in Riverside, recently took second place in Emerging Artists 2014: High School Show at The American Museum of Ceramic Art in Pomona. The show, held every two years, is open to high school students throughout Southern California. This year’s show featured 75 pieces.

Vazquez’s second-place finish allows him to attend a workshop at the museum and study with ceramic artist Lauren Smith.

Brett Mosher, Ramona’s ceramics teacher, said Vazquez created a challenging piece that required several firings and took at least a month to complete.

Rather than discard the slightly cracked plate, Vazquez broke it into multiple sections. He applied different surface decorations to each piece. Using metal wire, he sewed the pieces together again, recreating the original plate.

For one section, Vazquez took pages from Dante Alighieri’s 14th-century epic poem “Divine Comedy,” burned them with a blow torch and glued them on the plate.

Vazquez said he was seeking a literary reference for hell, fire, evil and associated concepts.

Vazquez said he hasn’t decided whether to study ceramics or architecture after he graduates from high school.

When he was younger, Vazquez said he played with Legos and enjoyed creating things.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Freedom Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Freedom publications without any notification or payment.
