
Carol Soles, a Prince Albert woman, renowned for her volunteer activities owes her life to two brave men.

On Saturday, Soles was attending a church function near MacDowall. She and a few others were riding on their quads by the river.

"Everybody was riding near the river and it didn't feel right to me," said Kyle Andersen who was watching from a short distance away.

A few minutes later, Kyle's sick feeling would be realized, when Carol, along with her quad, would take a tumble into the river. Soles had misjudged the riverbank.

Kyle's younger brother Tye would be the first to rush to the rescue. The 18-year-old lifeguard had training for these types of events.

"It (the water) was so cold. When I put my foot in the first time, I lost my breath completely," he said.

Tye would then yell out for his older brother to come and help. The frigid water also took Kyle by surprise, and he recalls him and his brother both feeling helpless, watching Carol drift away on her quad.

"That's when me and my brother realized that she is going to die," said Kyle.

Using a winch from a quad for leverage, Tye would reach Carol first.

"I got to her and the winch had locked up," he said. I actually had a hold of her hand the first time. I was trying to pull her towards the winch, but I couldn't do it. The water was just too strong."

The second attempt to rescue Carol would also fail. The men then devised a plan. They decided they would try and run farther down the beach, and then swim out to try and catch her. A rope was tied tightly around Kyle's waist and he swam out. Tye, along with a group of others, then held the line. Kyle pulled his shoulder out trying to grab the quad. He then gave up and grabbed Soles by the jacket.

"I said you're coming with me and then she said no," said Kyle who described Carol as very pale and in shock.

The pair were then pulled safely to shore.

"My wife Sarah grabbed her, pulled her on shore and started stripping her clothes; and then all the other people that were there starting stripping their clothes off to give extra clothes to throw on her," said Kyle.

Soon after Carol was then placed beside the fire to warm up. When asked if anyone thought to call paramedics, Kyle said their location in the bush would have made it near impossible for paramedics to get there in time.

In a written statement, Carol said she is very grateful for her great nephews, Tye and Kyle. She is also very grateful for her niece Pati, who ran alongside the shore yelling words of encouragement....."Don't let go....hand on your quad....don't let go...we will get you out."

Carol Soles grasping on to her quad to prevent from drifting. Photo submitted by Marv Penner.

With the exception of a few minor aches and pains, Carol said she is doing alright.

As for her two brave heroes, both remain quite humble about the experience, neither one considering themself a hero.

"No, God was the hero," said Tye. "In that scenario, there was no way that was just me. The first step into that water I would have gave up. I guess it was all instinct."
