
The threat of impeachment of governors , real or perceived, is not a threat to devolution . It should not create panic among devolution ists, nor should it scare governors .

It’s a healthy evolution of the exercise of checks and balances on power and democracy that underpin the essence of devolution . The calls for a review of the legal environment governing impeachment are premature, and unnecessary at the moment.

The Constitution confers immense powers on governors in the administration of county affairs and this is amplified in the County Government Act. As the chief executive officer, he is mandated to provide leadership in the governance of the county.

His county executive is accountable to him for the performance of its functions and exercise of its powers. The Act also holds him accountable for the management and use of the county’s resources.

However, power comes with responsibilities. Hence, the Constitution raises the bar on the oath of this office and provides for removal from office through impeachment on a number of grounds, including abuse of office, gross misconduct, violation of the Constitution or laws and conviction for crimes under national or international law. It’s the people’s representatives at grassroots that initiate the process and impeach him. The Senate then acts as a trial jury to either acquit or convict.

While impeachment is a legal process, recalling an MP is a political one. In our previous Westminster dispensation, removal from office is through a vote of no confidence, a political process less impartial than the impeachment . Two-thirds of the County Assembly must vote to impeach a governor, and a majority in the Senate must uphold it.

Both Houses will be acting in a quasi-judicial manner when executing this mandate, with governor having all the rights of an accused in a court of law. In the US, the Congress with all its political impartiality, indicts, tries and impeaches public officials. When Senate summoned governors in exercise of their oversight mandate, the latter went to court arguing that they are accountable to the county assemblies only. Yet, when the latter acts in the exercise of their powers we turn around and accuse MCAs of mob lynching or witch-hunting.

Neither the county’s MCAs nor the Senate elected from across the country and diverse political persuasions can act in an impartial, irrational or obtuse manner in proceedings that are publicly held before their electorate. Should we legislate on a minimum threshold for the grounds of impeachment ? Globally, the best practice is that the threshold evolves through precedents rather than law.

In the US, the Constitution cites the grounds for impeachment as “treason, bribery or other high crimes and misdemeanours”.Â  The exact meaning of the term high crimes and misdemeanours has been the subject of debate, and interpreted over the years to include allegations of misconduct peculiar to officials, such as perjury of oath, abuse of authority, bribery, intimidation, misuse of assets, failure to supervise, dereliction of duty, conduct unbecoming, cheating on income tax, and refusal to obey a lawful order. The first impeachment conviction in the US was Judge John Pickering of New Hampshire in 1807, on grounds of “drunkenness and unlawful rulings”.

Article 259 of our Constitution demands we interpret it “in a manner that contributes to good governance”. In a nation where probity of public officials is awfully scarce, corruption and embezzlement of public funds is virtuous, and where abuse of office and breach of law is not uncommon, it would be foolhardy to suggest that we define what constitutes abuse of office or gross misconduct. Similarly, attempts to ridicule MCAs for impeachment s flies in the face of the constant barrage of plunder and misuse of resources in the counties in the Auditor General’s reports and the media.
