
“Moms want to know that when we take our families out to eat burritos, we won’t be confronted with bullets,” said Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action, a grassroots activism network she formed in the wake of the Newtown murders that is now under the umbrella of Bloomberg’s $50 million Everytown movement .

Watts pointed to a February incident inside a Utah Chipotle, when a gun owner with a conceal carry permit dropped his handgun, causing it to discharge . The man wasn’t cited as he “legally [had] a right to carry his gun that way,” according to the Sandy Police.

Open Carry Texas founder C.J. Grisham told Forbes that this past weekend’s activity was not a demonstration, but simply a meal following an event.

Grisham said his group’s policy is to send an unarmed person into a restaurant to seek permission to dine and to warn staff and customers in advance.

Traditionally, Chipotle’s policy towards weapons inside restaurants has been to follow state laws. Forbes reached out to the restaurant chain for a comment and will update this post with any response received.

“The issue of gun ownership or gun rights has become one of the most contentious debates in the country. Chipotle has never taken a position on this issue, as we focus instead on our mission to change the way people think about and eat fast food.

Recently participants from an “open carry” demonstration in Texas brought guns (including military-style assault rifles) into one of our restaurants, causing many of our customers anxiety and discomfort.  Because of this, we are respectfully asking that customers not bring guns into our restaurants, unless they are authorized law enforcement personnel.

Historically, we felt it enough to simply comply with local laws regarding the open or concealed carrying of firearms, because we believe that it is not fair to put our team members in the uncomfortable position of asking that customers refrain from bringing guns into our restaurants.  However, because the display of firearms in our restaurants has now created an environment that is potentially intimidating or uncomfortable for many of our customers, we think it is time to make this request.

*Note: A commenter has pointed out that only one of the rifles in this Facebook photo is an SKS. The other looks to be an M16 derivative.

Upon seeing armed men entering a restaurant – I have to make a split second life or death situation decision – do I run/hide or relax? In the time it takes for me to weigh the cost benefits analysis of being in an active shooter event or finishing my burrito the adrenaline that is coursing through me as the fight or flight instinct kicks in – has also suppressed my appetite – so I either run out screaming or I walk out pissed off my lunch was ruined – In both cases I leave and won’t be returning until lunch at Chipotle isn’t a burrito and an existential crisis.

Are you really that insecure? You do not have to fear the person acting in a none threatening manner. The firearm he is carrying legally is something you should feel comforting about. It is the wild eyed crazy who hides his pistol until he is about to use it to be feared.

Exactly. Go to Chick-fil-A if you want to have a gun party.

Makes perfect sense. When I see an obese redneck with a loaded assault rifle, a wave of comfort washes over me, as I know nothing bad could possibly happen (that’s why there are no documented cases of accidental shootings by gun owners).

Thank you for that beautiful piece of prose Taan Maat!

Why not enlighten us with the numerous accidental shootings by those carrying openly in public. We will wait for the voluminous documentation that I’m sure you have to post.

ROFLMFAO!

I don’t agree with banned people carrying legal weapons into and restaurant. I would just refuse to patronise the same places.

The local Chipotle I frequent is full of armed gunmen when I go there for lunch. As a matter of fact, I think it is the local policy of giving certain armed gunmen free lunch – the police don’t normally pay; yet the armed men and women from the local military base are charged.

I feel very safe bringing my children to Chipotle for lunch when i know armed gunmen will be there.
