
Amidst reports concerning the House’s changes to the USA FREEDOM Act and how the recently passed new version fails to address issues with the 702 section of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act – allowing the government to continue its “back door” searches of electronic and phone communications of Americans in contact with foreigners – the Tenth Amendment Center reported that at least two of the five nullification bills that passed last week keep the federal government from tracking cellphone data without a warrant.

Bill SF2466, which passed with tremendous bipartisan support through both Minnesota state House and Senate, bans law enforcement agencies in Minnesota from obtaining tracking information on cellphone users in the state without a warrant.

Senate Joint Resolution 27 in Missouri also protects the consumer’s data by adding electronic communications as one of the objects protected by the state constitution . The resolution should be up for a vote by Missouri residents this November after passing the House.

A bill keeping Missouri out of the federal government’s plans to expand the Common Core educational standards has also passed last week . House Bill 1490 allows the state to regain control, keeping the federal government away from interfering with local educational boards and guidelines.

In both South Carolina and Tennessee, the federal ban on farming industrial hemp has also been nullified. Both states passed bills that allow local farmers to grow industrial hemp in their states. In Tennessee, Republican Governor Bill Haslam j ust signed the proposal into law . South Carolina’s Republican Governor, Nikki Haley, is expected to sign the bill into law in the near future .

Local support for bills that nullify the federal government’s major restraints on our freedoms is a strong indicator we are winning the cultural battle against the government’s ever-extending involvement with all aspects of our lives.

Whether the USA FREEDOM Act passes, or another stronger piece of legislation comes along to weaken the NSA’s power, these local laws confirm local involvement can lead to rewarding results.

Privacy Policy | © 2005-2009 UnitedLiberty.org. All rights reserved.
