
Iowa, the top ethanol producer, has recently made some satisfying progress in further embracing the biofuels industry. The state has the capacity to produce nearly 3.8 billion gallons of ethanol as well as cellulosic production to come online soon.

There’s some good news coming out of Iowa lately. The Iowa Renewable Fuels Association does a good job of telling the story of ethanol-related developments in that state and I thought I’d take a minute to applaud signs of positive progress.

Possibly the coolest thing about this bill is the overwhelming support it received in both the state Senate and the House of Representatives. First, the Senate passed it unanimously on April 1 and the House followed up with only two “no” votes (compared to 96 “yeses”) on April 23. The Senate then passed the amended bill with another unanimous vote, the last step before it was sent on to the Governor. That’s a pretty strong yes for biofuels in Iowa, a state with 42 ethanol plants, three cellulosic ethanol plants under construction and another 12 biodiesel plants.

A few weeks ago, the Iowa Department of Revenue released a report that showed a big increase in the gallons of mid-level blends sold in the state in 2013. A total of 5.4 million gallons of blends from E15 to E69 was sold, an impressive 158 percent increase. E85 sales also hit the highest point yet, at 11.1 million gallons sold. That’s an 18 percent increase from the previous year.

It’s also notable that ethanol blends, including combined sales of E10, mid-level blends and E85, represented 82.2 percent of the total gasoline sales in the year. Out of the 2,117 retail stations selling gasoline in Iowa, only 83 of them didn’t sell any ethanol blends. Of the reporting retail stations, a total of 93.6 percent sell E10, nearly 4 percent sell E15 and/or E20 and nearly 10 percent sell E85.

It wouldn’t be accurate to say the increase in ethanol gallons sold in Iowa is totally due to the work of these ethanol producers and on-site blenders. But I would guess what they do has definitely had a big positive impact. These savvy producers know that anything they can do to encourage retailers to sell more ethanol blends at competitive prices is going to ultimately benefit their business and the ethanol industry as a whole. It took stepping out of the production box, hard work to comply with blending regulations and spending money to install blending equipment. Bravo to the innovative ethanol producers featured in the EPM story and others not specifically named but working just as hard at getting more gallons of ethanol in consumers’ gas tanks.

One last note about Iowa. Monte Shaw, the executive director of IRFA, is running for State Congress in Iowa. I can’t pretend to know anything about state politics in Iowa and I don’t know anything about his running mates. However, I do know a thing or two about Shaw, having heard him speak and interviewed him for EPM articles. I know he would be a strong advocate for rural economic development and biofuels, if elected.
