
The U.S. immigration system is flawed and broken. Conservatives should be at the forefront of reform so the law reflects the just interests of the United States, not misty-eyed ideals of some of the liberal do-gooder reformers. What is good for America should be the sole criteria for immigration reform.

Our laws today are unenforced and citizens and companies who play by the rules are undermined by bad actors who do not. This undermines our rule of law and slows our economic growth. In today's global economy, we cannot afford the status quo.

Congress must pass legislation that will fix our broken system.

How sick are we of hearing that our immigration system is "broken"?  It's not broken!  Our immigration laws are not being enforced by Washington!  Mr. Russo agrees they're not being enforced, but then he turns around and says we need more laws, because of it.  How does he imagine more laws will make the federalistas follow the ones they currently won't?  It's the same reasoning employed by pushers of a convention of the states to amend the Constitution:  since the crooks in Washington will not obey the laws of the Constitution, let's pass more laws, and surely they'll obey those.  It's ludicrous.

He claims that if we do nothing now, then businesses will be hurt.  Yet, with our economy in the gutter and unemployment in the sky, I truly don't see how legalizing who-knows-how-many millions of criminal aliens (many of whom will further drain our welfare system) will help anything, much less businesses.

Finally, we need to make the 11 million people who are here illegally obey the law, pay taxes and come out of the shadows. We have to get them right by the law in exchange for legal status, but not unbridled amnesty. This should include penalties, background checks to root out criminals, and the requirement that they learn English, understand the Constitution and be committed to our basic freedoms. We must ensure there is no special pathway to citizenship that puts them in front of people who waited in line.

These are the same vacuous arguments we heard back in 2007 when the American people rose up with intense outrage and helped kill the McCain-Kennedy amnesty bill.  I would advise Mr. Russo that since 2007 we have not changed our minds about amnesty for illegal aliens.  We are also sick of the empty promise that the border will be secured before anything else happens.  We know that is not the case, nor will it be the case, especially as long as Barack Obama (or whatever his name is) remains in the White House.

No sane nation allows unfettered immigration.  No rational country just throws up its hands – and it sovereignty – and tosses a blanket of "legality" over border crashers, but that has effectively been what the U.S. done for years, and the last thing we need is amnesty, labeled as "immigration reform."  We need to stop this insanity by enforcing our laws, securing our borders and slowly but surely expelling those who are here illegally.

The views expressed by RenewAmerica columnists are their own and do not necessarily reflect the position of RenewAmerica or its affiliates.

Gina Miller, a native of Texas and current resident of the Mississippi Gulf Coast, is a conservative Christian political writer and radio/television voice professional.  Contact her through Facebook .
