
The state Assembly has sent a trio of LGBT bills to the Senate for consideration in recent weeks, including two aimed at easing hurdles transgender residents and same-sex parents face with state documents.

Last Thursday, May 15, Assembly members on a 61-3 vote passed AB 1577, authored by lesbian Speaker Toni Atkins (D-San Diego), which would require death certificates to reflect the decedent's gender identity.

The death of transgender filmmaker and Tranny Fest (now called the San Francisco Transgender Film Festival) co-founder Christopher Lee, a San Francisco artist and transgender advocate who was misgendered after his death in 2012, inspired the legislation. Lee was born female but had long identified and expressed himself as a transgender man.

When Lee died by suicide December 22, 2012 at the age of 48, the coroner wrongly identified him as female on his death certificate, despite his driver's license that correctly showed his sex as male.

"I am excited to see this bill become law. At a time when we were mourning the loss of our dear family friend, we had to endure the pain of seeing him and his legacy be disrespected," stated Lee's close friend Chino Scott-Chung in a release issued last Friday by Equality California. "We don't want this to happen to anyone else's family or friends."

Under Atkins's bill, authorities completing death certificates would be required to record the decedent's sex consistent to other official documents, such as a birth certificate or driver's license, if those have been legally changed to reflect a gender transition.

"Once we are deceased, we are often at the mercy of others to treat us with dignity," stated Atkins following the vote last week on her bill. "The very least we can do is ensure individuals are given basic human dignity by honoring their authentic selves when they pass so that more pain is not inflicted upon grieving loved ones or the community."

Earlier in the month the Assembly passed AB 1951, authored by Assemblyman Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles), which requires the state registrar to modify birth certificates to recognize same-sex couples. The bill, passed on a 51-13 vote May 8, would allow birth certificates to reflect the child has two mothers or two fathers.

If adopted by the Senate, then starting in 2016 parents would have the option of marking mother, father, or parent on their child's birth certificate. Currently, the only option for couples is for one to identify as the mother/parent and the other as the father/parent on the forms.

"I want to thank my colleagues in the Assembly for their support. I urge the Senate to recognize the importance AB 951 for families across our state and ask for their support," stated Gomez, whom Atkins last week named as majority whip for the Democratic Caucus.

The bill has drawn the ire of the anti-gay Pacific Justice Institute, which has complained that "California is well on its way to further redefining the family" through passage of the new law. The conservative lobbying group argued in a press release following the Assembly vote on the bill that it would allow lesbians to choose the father designation and gay men to opt for mother on their children's birth certificates.

"Playing a labeling game does not change the reality of whether one is a dad or a mom. These types of absurd laws make our state a laughingstock and diminish respect for the law," stated Brad Dacus , the group's president. "They also make it clearer than ever that redefining marriage is just the starting point for LGBT activists who want to redefine everything about the family."

Proponents of the bill, however, point out that the current version of the birth certificate forms force same-sex parents to designate one as the mother and one as the father. Gomez's legislation would remedy that situation to allow both parents to choose either mother or father, though there is nothing in the law to restrict a same-sex couple from choosing one as the mother and one as the father on the form if they so desired.

The third bill winning Assembly passage was AB 1678, authored by gay Assemblyman Rich Gordon (D-Menlo Park), which requires public utilities to extend their existing provisions granted to minority-, women-, and disabled veteran- owned business enterprises to certified LGBT-owned businesses.

It passed by a vote of 54-20 May 15 and now also heads to the Senate for a vote. All of the state's LGBT chambers of commerce and public utilities AT&T and Southern California Edison have endorsed the legislation. The Bay Area Reporter urged state lawmakers to adopt the legislation in an editorial last week.

The existing program covers every electrical, gas, water, wireless telecommunications service provider and telephone corporations with annual revenues exceeding $25 million, requiring them to establish a program that encourages procurement contracting with business enterprises of minority, women, or disabled veteran affiliation. AB 1678 extends these provisions to certified LGBT-owned business enterprises.

Central Valley beekeeper Michael Eggman , the brother of lesbian state Assemblywoman Susan Talamantes Eggman (D-Stockton), will be back in town this week to raise money for his congressional bid.

A frequent visitor to the Bay Area as he fundraises for his campaign, Eggman is running for a Central Valley House seat against two-term incumbent Congressman Jeff Denham (R-Turlock).

California's 10th Congressional District covers the cities of Tracy, Manteca, Modesto, and Turlock and includes a large portion of the northwestern expanse of Henry W. Coe State Park south of San Jose. Many of its newer residents commute to jobs in the Bay Area.

Gay business leader Steve Adams , a senior vice president with Sterling Bank and Trust and president of the city's Small Business Commission, and Allen Eggman, whose husband is Lazy Bear producer Harry Lit and is first cousins with Michael Eggman, are co-hosting the $100-a-person fundraiser.

It takes place from 6 to 8 p.m. Wednesday, May 21 at Sterling Bank and Trust's offices in the Transamerica Pyramid in downtown San Francisco.

Copyright © 2012, Bay Area Reporter, a division of BAR, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
