
You will be redirected to the page you want to view in  seconds.

The Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council has agreed to contribute cash towards Detroit’s grand bargain to help the city emerge from bankruptcy, federal mediators said Monday.

According to the mediators, who are led by U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen, the Trades Council will make “material contributions” towards health care costs for Detroit’s retirees.

The statement does not include a dollar figure, but it is the first time that a union or union group has made a commitment to contribute direct funds to city’s restructuring plan. The agreement is additional proof that the mediation sessions, led by Rosen, have been pivotal in helping the city break through difficult political and financial hurdles in negotiations with creditors.

Michigan House Speaker Jase Bolger, R-Marshall, called the deal a “huge step forward” that could provide momentum towards other unions stepping forward. But the news was greeted with less enthusiasm by at least two other Detroit employee unions.

Bolger has been urging Detroit’s unions to contribute cash towards Detroit’s restructuring plan. Bolger and the state Legislature are considering a request from Gov. Rick Snyder for the state to contribute $194.8 million lump sum towards the grand bargain, which minimizes cuts for Detroit retirees and pensioners and protects the Detroit Institute of Arts in the bankruptcy.

“I appreciate the leadership and the efforts made by Chief Judge Rosen, the mediators and union leadership ... This huge step forward will help Detroit’s retirees while we work to help bring the city out of bankruptcy quickly,” Bolger said in a statement.

Rosen, appointed by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to lead mediation, secured $366 million in donations from nonprofit foundations, Snyder is asking legislators to approve 194.8 million contribution in state cash, and the DIA pledged $100 million in donations.

All told, the $660.8 million in contributions forms the basis for a bankruptcy restructuring plan that minimizes pension cuts and protects the DIA. However, a number of legislators are reluctant to approve the state’s participation without a direct financial participation from the city’s unions.

Efforts to reach leaders of the Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council were not successful Monday night.

However, a representative of the city’s largest employee union said labor groups by and large are leery or outright hostile to the idea of donating money after years of austerity and pay cuts.

Jeff Pegg, president of the Detroit Fire Fighters Association, said his union has not talked about making any further contributions. He said his members are already facing pension and health care cuts.

“What more do we need to contribute?” he said.

“There are a lot of retirees out there who are hurting,” Alberts said.

He noted that the city initially proposed ending city-paid retiree health care and replacing it with $125 monthly stipends to help retirees buy their own insurance. The retirees fought that, and the city raised the stipends to $175 monthly or up to $400 a month for duty-disabled workers.

The Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council represents a broad-based consortium of unions in Michigan’s building and construction industry.

“It is hoped that other labor organizations will soon come to the table and support this effort to assist Detroit’s retirees in meeting their health care costs,” the statement from the mediators says.

A link to this page will be included in your message.

Copyright © 2014 www.freep.com. All rights reserved.
