
(Reuters) - Minority ethnic Tamils said on Sunday they had been banned from commemorating the deaths of their relatives five years ago in the final battle of a 26-year war with Sri Lanka `s military, a charge denied by the army.

While President Mahinda Rajapaksa, who is under international pressure to investigate war crimes in the battle, watched a victory parade in the south of the island, Tamils said they had been barred from attending Hindu temples in the north.

Ananthi Sasitharan, wife of a rebel leader missing since his Tamil Tiger separatists surrendered to the army on May 18, 2009, said the military used `abusive language` when she tried to enter the temple in Keerimalai.

`They didn`t allow me to Keerimalai Hindu temple to conduct my usual rituals to remember my relatives killed in the war and my husband. This is a blatant human rights violation. It exposes the government`s heavy military control over Tamil civilians,` she said.

Five other residents also said they had been banned, but declined to be identified due to possible reprisals.

They said security was tightened across the northern Jaffna peninsula, with roads closed to prevent any commemorative events. They said the military had ordered Tamils not to hold any commemorations.

Military spokesman Ruwan Wanigasooriya said families had not been barred from their rites, but some additional security had been established to maintain stability as some parties were trying to create what he described as an `unwanted situation`.

`There was no prevention of individual families commemorating their dead. Our concern was mainly about any organized move to politically incite people and ... commemorating terrorists would not be allowed,` he said.

Wanigasooriya said the military saw some Tamil families observing religious rituals in temples, including in Keerimalai.

While both sides mark the end of the war every year, this fifth anniversary comes after the main ethnic Tamil party secured a landslide in a provincial poll in September, rekindling the animosity between the sides.

The Tamil National Alliance, the former political proxy of the defeated Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, won 30 seats in the 38-member council in the former northern war zone.

The TNA victory showed the defeat of the rebels in 2009 did nothing to subdue calls for autonomy among Tamils, who make up about 14 percent of Sri Lanka`s 20 million people.

`When we are suffering with the loss of lives and other properties , how can this government justify their victory?` Sasitharan, a TNA councilor, told Reuters.

Animal,

Sri Lanka has ever right to  celebrate the Victory over terrorism  which destroyed thousands of lives over thirty years. What You need to oppose is  the present government on its actions taken (or no action) to  uplift the livelihood of the people who  directly affected by the war.  War win should have been one of  the milestone to make just and fair  society in the country,  But what present government does is to further destroy it staying  the undercover of the war victory.

My  opinion is Tamil diaspora is supporting the present government by many means to  justify the present government's actions  and fool  the entire country.

No one can stop the celebration SL army defeating the LTTE barbarians. The celebrations will go in forever .Tamils are not genuinely trying to have memorials for their loved ones but they are commemorating the dead terrorists who destroyed them  and SL. The government dealt the problem with zero tolerance. This clearly shows Tamils have no interest in reconciliation. You cannot clap with one hand.

Tamils celebrate Terrorists.

Sri Lanka has ever right to celebrate the Victory over terrorism which destroyed thousands of lives over thirty years. What You need to oppose is the present government on its actions taken (or no action) to uplift the livelihood of the people who directly affected by the war. War win should have been one of the milestone to make just and fair society in the country, But what present government does is to further destroy it staying the undercover of the war victory.

Exactly!

All 2 container loads of GOLD were EVAPORATED in the air!

Reuters Media Whore:  'Minority ethnic Tamils said...'

A wife of a Bloodthirsty Terrorist leader allegedly missing since his Bloodthirsty Tamil Tiger Terrorists surrendered to the army on May 18, 2009, said the military used 'abusive language' when she tried to enter the temple in Keerimalai.

LoL!

MP Perera has said that the heroin trade was a serious issue and Sri Lanka had become a central hub for drug trafficking.

He has accused the government of providing security to the alleged European and African drug suppliers living in the country.

The government has failed to eradicate the drug menace despite pledging in the Mahinda Chintana manifesto to eradicate the heroin trade within three years, the MP has charged.

Keep longer as possible this mafia king and family. Then NO need any war against the retarded Sinhalayas , Tamils will achieve real VICTORY !

Don't worry about drugs Charliya,  Canadians love it & have instead of meals, Brits love it, Americans cannot live without it , Srilankans live it too. Looks like you are on drugs too to utter nonsense.

So mind your own business without washing Harpers sh1tty pants on LNP 24/7.
