
The easiest and most convenient thing to do in Pakistan to run down one’s rival is to allege that the person or institution is an agent of India and Jews. Add to it the allegation that the accused is getting money from abroad to advance a foreign agenda and you have a dangerous mix that can cause financial losses or even put lives at risk.

This is what is happening right now across Pakistan to the Jang media group, particularly the Geo TV channel, and its owner and employees. At a recent Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf protest rally in Kohat, the Geo correspondent Yasir Shah was threatened that his house would be torched if he didn’t stop working for the said TV channel.

Mistakes may have been committed and the organisation and its management could be punished under law if found guilty, but questioning one’s patriotism is uncalled for. Rival media groups and journalists working for them are at the forefront of this campaign. Unity among publishers and broadcasters as well as journalists was already becoming a mirage, but this episode has dealt a death-knell to any hopes of standing together for a common cause. Earlier, professional rivalry mattered more but now commercial interests dictate policy and the way journalism is practised.

There were many who tried to make fun of Hamid Mir when the first attempt on his life was made on November 26, 2012 in Islamabad by fixing a bomb to his car.

One thought they won’t be able to repeat their diatribe by creating suspicion about yet another attempt on Mir’s life in Karachi on April 19. It was a well-planned but poorly executed plot to eliminate one of the most influential journalists in Pakistan.

The second attempt on his life proved that the first one was also real and not a drama as some made it out to be. Those trying to portray this as stage-managed would not say such things if they or someone close to them were to become the target of an assassination attempt. In fact, it was callous to make such insinuations when Mir was bed-ridden after having bravely fought for life.

The firing of 12 bullets with the sophisticated MM-9 pistol cannot be a drama by any stretch of imagination. Six bullets hit Mir and three are still lodged in his body. Those trying to eliminate him made sure that the attempt won’t fail. His car was chased and fired at even when the driver sped away.

The confidence with which the target-killers executed their plan in broad daylight on a busy highway showed that they feared none. They must have assurances that they wouldn’t be nabbed or harmed. The fact that the CCTV cameras weren’t working is another mystery even though police officials were claiming that there was no electricity at the time and, therefore, these good-for-nothing cameras weren’t working.

Sadly enough, fellow journalists have been at the forefront in maligning, rather than honouring, Mir for speaking the truth despite threats to his life. Perhaps in no other profession is there so much jealousy as in journalism. Fellow journalists are taking the lead in ridiculing and maligning anyone who achieves success in journalism or is otherwise able to earn respect and credibility. It is rare to find journalists praising the work of colleagues, more so if they work for rival organisations.

The 48-year old Hamid Mir achieved fame at a young age. He was clever and articulate. He travelled widely and acquired knowledge by meeting as many people as possible and reading whatever came his way. By working hard, he overcame shortcomings he had in terms of proficiency in English language and understanding of local, regional and global issues.

Self-confident and sometimes boisterous, Mir was intelligent and witty. This enabled him to stand out among the scores of television anchors who emerged on the scene in the last decade as private TV channels mushroomed. Other anchors knew they had to do better than Mir to eclipse Geo TV’s flagship current affairs show, Capital Talk.

It is painful to hear some people, including journalists, question Mir’s patriotism and also that of the organisation for which he has been working. This is part of the old debate in Pakistan in which political rivals were dubbed as traitors and those speaking for the rights of a province or its people were arrested and tried on treason charges.

One could question Mir’s professionalism or stance on issues, but it is wrong to doubt the patriotism of someone who loves Pakistan and its people, including the oppressed Baloch. It requires courage to speak truthfully about issues that are considered important for national security. Toeing the official line is easy, but not doing so is risky. And that is what Mir tried to do because he honestly felt a different approach to tackle some of the national security issues would serve Pakistan better.

Amina Masood Janjua, the indefatigable chairperson of the Defence of Human Rights, best summed up Mir’s contribution to the cause of the missing persons when she wrote that no other journalist in Pakistan highlighted their plight the way Mir bravely and persistently did all these years. This is an issue that rankled many in our security establishment, but Mir and his media group felt it needed to be highlighted if Pakistan were to make strides as a country governed by rule of law.
