
MANILA, Philippines — The country’s boom in the last three years is just the beginning of a “remarkable” transformation that could see the Philippines grow into a trillion-dollar economy, as long as current reforms are sustained.

US-based think tank IHS said the domestic economy, which was one of the best-performing in the world last year, had what it would take to grow to more than triple its size in the next decade and half.  From a “pussycat” today, the Philippines could become a major Asian “tiger” by 2030.

“The Philippines’ economy has the capacity for robust long-term economic growth of around 4.5 per cent to 5 per cent per year over the 2016 to 2030 time horizon,” IHS said in a statement on Monday.

The bullish projection comes ahead of the World Economic Forum on East Asia to be held in Manila this week. IHS representatives will attend the forum as delegates.

If reforms in the areas of “ease of doing business” and fiscal consolidation are sustained, the country’s economy as measured by gross domestic product (GDP) could grow from its current size of $280 billion to $680 billion by 2024. By 2030, the economy could be worth $1.2 trillion.

Last year, the Philippine economy grew by 7.2 percent—the fastest expansion of any major Southeast Asian economy. By 2016, the Aquino administration is targeting a growth rate of as much as 8.5 percent.

Current growth drivers of the Philippines are the outsourcing industry and the strong and stable remittances of the overseas Filipino workers (OFW).

In the long-term, IHS said the country would be heavily dependent on the ability to make the manufacturing sector more competitive and to mobilize both foreign and domestic investment flows into the manufacturing sector.

“This will require considerable improvement of the business climate, with the Philippines still ranked very low globally on the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings,” IHS said.

While the Philippines has posted significant gains in improving the various ease-of-doing-business and competitiveness rankings since the start of President Aquino’s term, the country still trails more than half of the world.

In the World Bank’s latest annual Ease of Doing Business report, where the Philippines jumped 30 spots last year alone, the country still ranked 100th out of 189 nations covered.  In the region, the country ranked 6th out of 10.

“Sustained rapid growth will require continued economic reforms to improve the business climate of the Philippines, making it more attractive for foreign direct investment into sectors such as manufacturing and tourism,” IHS said.

If this indeed happens, another Napoles would make P10 Trillion out of scams not just P10B.

While the Philippines has posted significant gains in improving the various ease-of-doing-business and competitiveness rankings since the start of President Aquino’s term, the country still trails more than half of the world.

ITS ALREADY 4 YEARS OF THE NEW ADMINISTRATION, IS THERE STILL NO IMPROVED POLICIES ON THIS? THERE ARE STILL DEPARTMENTS WHO ARE SLEEPING ON THEIR JOB.

TESDA the poorest performer and probably remain one of the corrupt government agencies since the lady there whose name is Ms. Elsie required me to submit documents not related to my diploma such as photocopies of my passport, air ticket and employment certificate. To avoid difficulties and more artificial delays, I provided what she needed. I returned after five days and found that my papers are lying in her table and still not finished. I had to wait for more than an  hour for signing  only then she gave me my papers. I asked Ms. Elsie how many days usually their process for diploma authentication and she replied that  usually takes seven working days. After collecting my documents after seven days, I rushed to DFA for another authentication. I was surprised that even though the line was quite long of more than a hundred persons before me, the process I would say excellent. I got the release date slip after just few minutes to collect my papers the next day. However, I had to travel back to Kuwait the same day after 45 days of vacation. I left without my authenticated diploma all because the artificial delays created in TESDA.

Reform for what? Hot Money investments.

Only hot money investments are growing and no industrial or commercial investments which bring jobs.
