
Washington, D.C. -The Middle East and North Africa Consultants Association (MENACA) has announced the formation of its first member-driven and country-specific committee to explore how best to capitalize on growing U.S. company interests in Morocco; to better understand and leverage current personal, institutional and government relationships available through MENACA; and to help promote bilateral commercial development for MENACA’s members as well as interested third parties.

The Business Committee will be in constant dialogue with Moroccan companies to help them identify trade and investment opportunities in the U.S. In addition, the Committee will provide ACCESS and NETWORKING (through trade missions, business development services, conferences, and seminars in both countries) as well as INSIGHT (through publications and an online platform) to members and non-member companies that want to pursue specific business activities in Morocco and/or the U.S.

The Business Committee is chaired by Said Temsamani, a political analyst and strategist who served nearly 20 years at the U.S. Embassy in Rabat. “Morocco entered into a bilateral Free Trade Agreement with the United States that came into force in 2006. To facilitate the formation of lasting business relationships, MENACA will provide a wide range of networking opportunities and programs aimed to connect prominent corporate leaders in the US and Morocco,” said Mr. Temsamani regarding his new committee.

Other Committee members include Jean AbiNader, Executive Director of the Moroccan American Trade & Investment Center; Kathy Bailey, Majority Partner, Bailey Law PC; Hampton Dowling, Managing Partner, the HCB Group LLC; Nate Mason, former US Commercial Attaché to Libya and North Africa Desk Officer at the US Department of Commerce, now President, Mason Trade Strategy, LLC; Elisabeth R. Myers, Principal of Myers Energy International, CEO of Andalusia Trade International LLC, Chair of MENACA’s Women’s Entrepreneur Initiative and member of Morocco World News editorial board.
