
Accompanied by about two dozen newly elected party legislators, KCR, as the TRS chief is known, met the governor in the morning and the two were closeted for about 10 minutes.

A triumphant K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who led his party Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) to a decisive victory in Telangana, called on state Governor E.S.L Narasimhan on Sunday and informed him of his election as the leader of the TRS Legislature Party (TRSLP).

Accompanied by about two dozen newly elected party legislators, KCR, as the TRS chief is known, met the governor in the morning and the two were closeted for about 10 minutes.

Party sources said the two, however, did not discuss government formation since the standard procedure for this is for the governor to invite the single largest party to form the government. The TRS had sought an appointment with Narasimhan following its victory in the new state which comes into existence on June 2.

Earlier on Saturday, a joint meeting of the party’s newly-elected state legislators and MPs passed a unanimous resolution electing him as the leader of the legislature party.

Addressing the MLAs and MPs, KCR, who is set to become the first chief minister of the new state, said that the main focus of the new government would be on development and welfare of the poor.

KCR steered his party to the victory in the simultaneous elections to the assembly and Lok Sabha. The TRS has bagged 63 seats in the 119-member assembly, three more than the half-way mark, and 11 Lok Sabha seats out of the total 17 in the region. The voters gave a decisive verdict in favour of TRS which spearheaded the statehood movement since its inception in 2001. KCR was elected from both Medak Lok Sabha seat and Gajwel Assembly constituency.

The party general secretary K. Keshava Rao said that the date for the swearing-in ceremony would be decided after the lifting of the president’s rule and the constitution of the new assembly.

Once the heady euphoria over realisation of the statehood goal and the electoral victory subsides, the TRS will have to grapple with a complex web of challenges facing the soon-to-be-born state. Barring Hyderabad, the region is largely backward and cannot boast of any major industries.
