
A Tasmanian Labor Senator has defended spending about $23,000 on taxpayer-funded flights between Launceston and Hobart.

Helen Polley has confirmed a $12,000 a year bill for charter flights between 2011 and last June.

She says diary pressures mean she needs to take the 35-minute flight every few months, instead of the two and a half hour car trip.

Senator Polley is the ALP's only northern Senator.

She says a lot of important meetings and constituent issues are based in Hobart and it is the best way to be accessible to all Tasmanians.

The cost is covered under her travel entitlements and she denies it is an excessive amount for taxpayers to spend.

"Well people will make that judgement," she said.

"I'm trying to utilise my time as efficiently...as I possibly can to ensure that I get out into the electorate and I'm available and accessible to the Tasmanian community."

Liberal Bass MP Andrew Nikolic says all MPs face time pressures.

"For someone without portfolio responsibilities that does appear to be an extraordinary amount of money," he said.

Since being elected in September, Mr Nikolic says he has taken one intrastate flight, to meet constituents on Flinders Island.

The Federal Opposition Leader, Bill Shorten, says he will seek more information on Senator Polley's travel expenses.

He says it is important taxpayer-funded entitlements are used appropriately.

"We'll find out what has happened, but again, the standard I set of my team and indeed I think taxpayers expect from their elected representatives is if you're getting taxpayer funding you make sure it's within the guidelines set down by the law," Mr Shorten said.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
