
I feel sorry for Kuwait because it deserves better. It deserves a better parliament than the one we have. The parliament’s terrible performance is very obvious, in spite of the arguments that pro-government MPs make. No need for exaggerations. I am not going to use overblown rhetoric similar to those used by the opposition, and I am certainly not going to sing the parliament’s praises like current MPs do on a daily basis.

Their delusional statements are something, and the reality at a very important establishment like the parliament is a completely different thing. The current parliament lives through a terrible state of moral death.

Political bribes have become an actual fact, yet the parliament continues to work normally like nothing has happened.

In respectable countries where MPs respect their voters and give them top priority, a lawmaker would quit political life and exit from the backdoor in shame if suspected error is mentioned around his circle. There, a politician resigns due to an error in immigration papers for their housemaid. And there, Michael Martin resigns as speaker of the House of Commons over suspicions of involvement in the expenses scandal. But here, things like that happen openly yet no one cares.

The parliament is bad because it legislates and decides on behalf of the public that there is no need for democracy, and there is no use for its most important monitoring tool.

This parliament is a dark spot in the history of Kuwait’s parliamentary life, for scrapping a grilling motion in a season filled with corruption and economic regression.

The parliament is bad because it supports gag orders instead of being in support of freedom of opinion and more transparency. It is the first time in the parliament’s history that lawmakers became active in pursuing and prosecuting citizens in a systematic fashion. The parliament is bad because despite its relatively short age, it is filled with destructive deviations such as political bribes, obstructing monitoring and limiting freedom of opinion and expression.

Can you expect anything good from such a parliament, let alone achievements? I hope that the parliament gets dissolved sooner rather than later!
