
BELGRADE --  The Serbian Interior Ministry said on Monday morning that so far 25,070 people had been evacuated from their homes due to the severe flooding.

Of that number, 7,800 had to leave Obrenovac, a municipality of Belgrade near the Kolubara River, where the situation remains the most difficult. 17 people have been confirmed dead so far.

In eastern Serbia, the thermal power plant Kostolac and its strip coal mines have not been flooded and are not in immediate danger, while production is taking place unimpeded. The personnel dealing with the situation remains on standby.

Beside Obrenovac, the situation is particularly difficult in Krupanj, Sremska Rača, and Jamena in western Serbia, while the embankment built along the Sava River to defend the town of Šabac from the flood water is stable.

The Sava was on Monday morning five centimeters lower than last night.

Krupanj, devastated by the floods in the past days, is now hit by landslides. One such location that threatened an ammonia cooling facility has been repaired, said the MUP. The town is receiving shipments of food and water.

At this point, 26,000 households in Serbia remain without electricity. 2,260 buildings have been flooded. Five helicopters worked on Sunday to evacuate 36 persons and transport over four tons of food and water.

Taking part were helicopter units from Hungary and Slovenia, and from the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX.

BELGRADE -- Novak Đoković, who on Sunday won the Rome Masters tournament, has decided to donate the prize money to the flood victims in Serbia.

BELGRADE -- The epidemiological situation in Serbia is under control, and is being constantly monitored, said Doctor Bojana Grgić.

BELGRADE -- As of Monday, donations for the flood victims in Serbia can be made via PayPal from 193 countries and regions, the Serbian Ministry of Finance said.

BELGRADE -- France has put at Serbia's disposal almost half of its total capacities for fighting floods, French Ambassador to Serbia Francois-Xavier Deniau has told B92.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić sent a telegram of condolences to the family of late Dobrica Ćosić, Serbian writer and politician.

ROME -- Novak Đoković won the Rome Masters ATP as he beat the former champion, Spain's Rafael Nadal, in the final match on Sunday, 2-1 (4-6, 6-3, 6-3).

BELGRADE -- Repairing the damage caused by the floods will cost a lot and the European Union is ready to allocate funds for assistance to Serbia.

ROME -- Serbia's top tennis player Novak Đoković qualified for the Rome Masters by defeating Canada's Milos Raonic on Saturday 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-4), 6-3.

BELGRADE -- Italian Ambassador Giuseppe Manzo was the first diplomat who responded to B92's call to join in efforts to collect aid for the flood victims.

BELGRADE -- All those who wish to help the citizens affected by the flooding in Serbia can do so by donating food, water, clothes and blankets.

BELGRADE -- So far 6,175 people have been evacuated from their homes in Serbia as rivers burst their banks in several areas of the country after two days of heavy rains.

BELGRADE -- According to unofficial reports, a 42-year-old firefighter lost his life on Thursday morning as he was taking part in a rescue operation on the Jasenica River.

CRNA TRAVA -- A strong storm described as "tornado-like" on Wednesday hit the village of Mlačište near the municipality of Crna Trava in southern Serbia.

BELGRADE -- May 15 marks 25 years since Radio B92 first started broadcasting in Belgrade on the 92.5 FM frequency.

BELGRADE -- NASA has published a satellite photo showing Europe seen from space, where a huge cloud system, covering Serbia at its center, dominates.

BELGRADE -- A new survey carried out by the U.S. NGO NDI and CeSID showed that only 30 percent of Serbian citizens believe that democracy is the best type of government.

BELGRADE -- Former high ranking official of the Democratic Party (DS) and one of the closest associates of Boris Tadić, Miodrag Miki Rakić, has died.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
