
North Carolina is at it again. The state plans to cut unemployment benefits to a maximum of just 14 weeks, the fewest in the nation.

The reduction applies to anyone who files a jobless claim after July 6. They’ll only be able to get unemployment benefits for 14 weeks instead of 19 under the previous law.

No other state offers fewer than 18 weeks of benefits, and most provide 26 weeks.

North Carolina first cut benefits in July 2013 the under the leadership of a new Republican governor and a conservative-dominated legislature. Lawmakers made the move to reduce a growing debt to the federal government and to offer relief to businesses whose taxes rose sharply to fund the unemployment-insurance program. Conservatives also argued that excessively generous benefits allowed people to put off taking another job.

On the surface, the reduction in benefits appears to have been a success. North Carolina’s unemployment rate sank to 6.2% in April from 8.3% the month before the law took effect. That’s the second biggest decline in the nation during that time span – only Indiana did better.

North Carolina officials also say they slashed their debt to the federal government to 1.7% billion from $2.8 billion in April 2012. At its peak, North Carolina’s debt to the feds represented 5% of its overall fiscal 2013 budget and was one of the largest of any state in the nation. Washington loans out money to pay for jobless benefits if a state’s unemployment fund dries up.

Because of the high cost of unemployment benefits, North Carolina was forced to raise a special tax on businesses that funds its insurance program. Republicans argued that the higher tax costs jobs and said the state needed to cut benefits – and eventually business taxes – to boost hiring again.

Since the benefit reductions took hold last year, North Carolina has added 75,000 jobs and its unemployment rate has fallen 10 straight months, according to U.S. Labor Department data. Conservatives say that’s proof their approach works.

Liberals argue the cut in benefits has done nothing to help people find good jobs, forcing them to drop out of the labor force and move into the shadows. Others have opted to seek federal disability or welfare benefits, critics of the benefit cuts say.

Indeed, the size of the state’s labor force has fallen by about 22,000 since the first reduction in jobless benefits in mid-2013. The number of residents who started to receive welfare assistance also rose slightly in the fall of 2013, but only by about 1,000 people, including children. More recent data is not available.

Yet the percentage of working-age people in North Carolina who had a job or were looking for one was declining well before the reduction in benefits. The state’s so-called labor-force participation rate dropped from 62.8% to 62% in the 12 months before the law took effect. The percentage of working-age North Carolinians then declined to 61.1% by April 2014.

The actions of North Carolina have been a source of fierce dispute among liberal and conservatives nationwide about whether the sterner approach to benefits is working. The latest reduction in benefits is sure to intensify the debate.
