
Already have a Rappler Account? Login OR Register to create one.

Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).

De Lima: 'Not at all sleeping with the enemy'

MANILA, Philippines – Criticized for even considering the testimony of Janet Lim Napoles, Department of Justice (DOJ) Secretary Leila de Lima said she is "not at all sleeping with the enemy."

Seeking to dispel fears she's lawyering for the alleged pork barrel scam queen, De Lima told reporters on Monday, May 19, it was unfair to accuse her of that when she decided to accept from Napoles the list of lawmakers she (Napoles) allegedly transacted with.

The DOJ is tasked to prosecute the individuals involved in the illegal diversion of the lawmakers' Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) to bogus projects of fake non-governmental organizations associated with Napoles.

Earlier Senator Escudero Francis "Chiz" asked if De Lima had a deal with Napoles , after the justice secretary went to Napoles' hospital room on April 21 to listen to Napoles who was supposedly going to tell all that she knew about the pork barrel scam.

De Lima tagged as baseless Escudero's claim. "... Walang basehan yung mga nag-aagam-agam na I'm practically lawyering for Ms Napoles or that I'm probably being used by Ms Napoles. Please, I don't think anyone can use me. I don't think anyone can influence me in the discharge of my mandate."

De Lima also appealed to the public to allow her to fulfill her duty, by listening to the testimony of the person who knows a lot about the biggest corruption scandal to hit the country in recent years. She assured the public she cannot be influenced in her truth-seeking mandate – not even by Napoles.

"At least give me that opportunity, give me enough space to fulfill my mandate which is truth-seeking. Di ibig sabihin kung kakausapin si Ms Napoles or kakausapin uli si Ms Napoles o kaya tatanggapin ko yung more comprehensive affidavit, di ibig sabihin na naniniwala na ako sa mga sinab ni Ms Napoles," she said.

Napoles' testimony is yet to be completed , but the list of lawmakers she implicated was released ahead of her full narrative that could back up the list.

Fields with * are required.

Click close to continue.
