
SCE spokesman Jeremy Goldman (left) presented Edison Scholar Javier Cuan-Martinez, 18, of Temecula's Great Oak High School, with a ceremonial check during a surprise visit to his classroom May 19, 2014. Javier's parents, Martha Martinez and Javier Cuan, (right) said their Harvard-bound son has long been a math whiz.

TEMECULA – A contingent of local luminaries visited Great Oak High School on Monday to honor Javier Cuan-Martinez, a Harvard-bound senior who recently was awarded a $40,000 scholarship by Southern California Edison.

The group included Temecula Mayor Maryann Edwards; Tim Ritter, superintendent of the Temecula Valley Unified School District; Great Oak’s two principals; reporters from the school newspaper; an Edison spokesman, and, most importantly, his parents: Javier Cuan and Martha Martinez.

Cuan-Martinez, 18, already knew he was getting the scholarship – one of 30 handed out across Southern California through the utility’s Edison Scholar program – but he didn’t know the group would be visiting his morning math class.

As Edison spokesman Jeremy Goldman told the students about the particulars of the scholarship, Cuan-Martinez sat in his desk, a huge smile on his face.

His parents hung at the edge of the room – dad with a camera to capture the moment – until it was time for a group photo that brought the trio together.

“This scholarship is going to help a lot,” said Martinez, who last year helped her son search for scholarships. It costs around $40,000 to attend Harvard; $60,000 including room and board.

Martinez said she and her husband did all they could to encourage his development and growth, including moving to Temecula around eight years ago from Poway because of the local school system.

Cuan said his son has always been a self-starter, someone who is constantly searching out information. Martinez said the Temecula libraries were a big help feeding that curiosity, ordering tomes that Javier requested.

“They always had the books he needed,” she said.

Following the brief classroom interruption, which included the presentation of a big check by Goldman, Cuan-Martinez said he was very thankful for his parents, who, he said, have gone above and beyond to support his high school career.

At Harvard, Cuan-Martinez said he’s looking forward to studying robotics and software engineering.

“It’s programming the brain of the computer,” said the drum major, who applied to seven Ivy League schools and more than 20 total.

Ritter said Cuan-Martinez is the first Edison Scholar from the district. According to a list provided by SCE, which has boosted investment in the scholarship program in recent years, there were a handful of scholars from Inland Southern California, including students in San Bernardino, Redlands, Rancho Cucamonga and Chino Hills.

The program is designed to help minority, low-income and under-represented students in Southern California pay for college studies in science, technology, engineering and math, according to SCE.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Freedom Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Freedom publications without any notification or payment.
