
Washington -  The legal team at the White House has produced a document that is designed to assure members of Congress that existing U.S. laws provide protection against anyone being released.

The indefinite detention that existed in Guantanamo could be maintained as well in the U.S. according to the document .  Some members of Congress had argued that if detainees were in the U.S. they would have legal rights. If no evidence existed sufficient to try them, they could be released. The document also suggests that Congress could if it wished change the law to make is easier to have open-ended detention. There would be considerable cost savings involved through keeping inmates who cannot be transferred elsewhere in the U.S. rather than in Guantanamo Bay. One of the reasons that the prison was set up in Guantanamo Bay in the first place was so the inmates would not have rights they might have in the continental U.S. Now it seems that the administration is saying that indefinite detention without trial is perfectly possible in the U.S. I thought that indefinite detention of the accused without trial was one of the reasons why Guantanamo Bay was an object of international criticism.  Apparently if the same rights to a trial were removed in the U.S. that would be acceptable.

Obama had earlier tried to move inmates to Standish Mi and then to Thomson Il. but those moves were blocked by members of Congress. With the facilities at Guantanamo aging and in great need of repair and upgrading the Obama administration seems mainly interested in saving money and at the same time keeping his promise to close the prison.

However, it is not at all clear, that Obama expects to win over the Congress on the issue so he is also pursuing plan B that involves expensive construction and even new facilities at Guantanamo. Some members of the U.S. Congress have added $69 million to fund a new secret prison in Guantanamo even though the Pentagon hasn't as yet requested it. Back in April of 2013 the Obama administration announced that it planned to spend $195 million on renovations and new construction at the facility. Obama promised during his campaign for president in 2008 that he would close the facility. Perhaps that task will be left for some future president.
