
As the temperature is soaring up, it is a great time to plan the vacation. But there are so many interesting places around the world, where to visit is the primary question that haunts a traveler. An ideal place to spend the summer can be settled easily looking at the Facebook profile or at your Twitter account. The new generation is adept at researching a travel inspiration and information online, more precisely on different social media platform.

According to a report of the TripAdvisor, travelers around the world are not willing to book a vacation until they have read the reviews of a previous traveler. Peer reviews for the restaurants, attractions and hotels are highly influential while making travel plans. Frequent travelers admit that the social media platform is their modern travel agent. The travelers take inspiration from Pinterest, look for deals on Twitter, get restaurant tips on Foursquare and share photos on Facebook. Take a look on how travelers are using major social networks – apps, services and sites to make the travel planning.

Tips from friends are still considered the best travel advice. If you are confused, post a simple question on Twitter or Facebook and ask for suggestions. However, there is a chance that your friends may not see your post. The popular iPhone app Gogobot will send the queries to the Facebook and Twitter networks and to the site’s own members. .

The major part of any travel plan is deciding the airlines and hotels. Well, social media have answers for all your travel queries. If you want fare discounts or the most fair deal, believe us social media is the only option. Since the hoteliers and the airlines know the social media is the key to their success, they mostly come up with the offers and deals for the social media users.

These days, the concession on flight fare can be availed with a strike of luck. If you are insistent to travel on a discounted price, there are four popular fare tracking sites. These sites are managed by Twitter. However, you need to be little flexible with the travel dates to enjoy the privilege of fare discount.

Foursquare is an app that let the members “check in” to the coffee shop, restaurants and airport. It actually broadcast the whereabouts to your friends. This app is useful even for the travelers as well. Say, you are searching a nice pub in Washington DC? Explore the listing, reviews and pictures that people in your network have already visited. When you are in an un-familiar city the check-in data play a significant role. Foursquare’sTrending button tells you where most people have checked in and which spots have been busiest.

A traveler aghast with a leftover box in the mini-fridge,when he checked into Hyatt Regency Vancouver, took a picture with their iPhone and tweeted @HyattConcierge. Immediately the hotel staff cleared the fridge and the traveler got an apology tweet from the Hotel. The hotel also offered the traveler a complimentary breakfast.

Twitter and Facebook are even faster than calling the front desk and waiting for the staff to arrive. American (@AmericanAir) and Southwest Airlines (@SouthwestAir) are very active on Twitter. They respond very quickly to the customer-service matters.

Whether you want to know about a hotel room, remarkable attractions or an amazing meal at any location, social media bring all the information at your fingertips. So, what are you waiting for? Plan your summer bon voyage with the expert guidance of social media.

This article is an original contribution by Andy Johnson.

Thank you for adding to the conversation!

Our comments are moderated. Your comment may not appear immediately.

Business 2 Community is an independent online community focused on sharing the latest news surrounding Social Media, Marketing, Branding, Public Relations & much more.   Every day we feature the thought leadership of our open community of bloggers and aim to provide a balanced view of the business landscape based on industry news, trends and real-life experiences.
