
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Current military members and retirees are to be “grandfathered” from any retirement changes that the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission recommends to Congress next February.

Current force members shouldn’t let that dampen their interest in the work of the commission or its final recommendations, because any retirement reforms proposed almost certainly will include an “opt-in” feature.

If past behavior is a reliable guide, thousands will.

Economists use the term “personal discount rates.” More simply, it’s how the promise of cash-in-hand affects you versus larger future rewards.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff are insisting on it. The Obama administration has made retroactive retirement protection part of its guidance to the commission.

And the likelihood Congress will buck those promises is slim given the lashes Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), House and Senate budget committee chairmen, felt when their budget deal last December included a cap on military retiree cost-of-living adjustments.

Before the ink dried on that deal, Congress voted to replace the COLA cap with alternative budget savings it still might regret: lengthening the impact of sequestration on future defense budgets by another year.

So to borrow a phrase from recent popular culture: If you like your current plan, you can keep it. But you’ll have something new to consider.

Department of Defense pay experts gave the commission two concepts for reforming retirement. They also advised that a lot more money would be saved for taxpayers if, in adopting either of these ideas, the commission also endorses an “opt-in” feature for those in service.

“Steady state” savings from any one of the new retirement concepts if adopted only for new entrants would range from $1.7 billion to $3.9 billion annually, officials told the commission.

20 or more years.

The value of the annuity climbs by 2.5 percent of basic pay for each year served. However, only 15 percent of all members who serve stay long enough to quality.

Both of the new concepts shown the commission are “hybrid” plans, combining a reduced defined benefit with two new tools.

One is a “defined contribution” feature, the government making regular payments on a member’s behalf into a Thrift Savings Plan, similar to a 401(k) account. The contributions would be invested and made portable for members to take with them even if they leave before 20 years. They would be fully vested in these accounts after six years’ service.

Another element of the hybrid concept is supplemental pay to give the services greater flexibility to shape force structure and to retain select skills or pay grades.

Being able to pocket benefits sooner can be a powerful inducement to forfeit more valuable benefits.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for your subscription!

To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
