
MAHBUBNAGAR: In a high profile battle whose outcome had significant impact for both the parties, Congress candidate Vamshi Chander Reddy won the Kalwakurthy Assembly seat, the results of which were declared on Monday after repolling was held in a booth. He won with a margin of 79 votes against his nearest rival T Achary of the BJP. With this, the Congress has secured 21 seats in the 119 Telangana Assembly and will be the principal opposition party.

The repolling in booth No. 119 of Jupally village took place amidst high tension. There was palpable tension even after the repolling ended at 6 pm as candidates awaited the results which were to be declared on Monday night itself. The repolling was necessitated due to the EVM failure during the counting on May 16. Though officials wanted to announce the winning candidate if the majority of the candidate was higher than the polled votes in the failed EVM, the slender margin came in the way. The Congress candidate Vamshi Chander Reddy was ahead with only 157 votes.

The candidates rushed to Jupally and started campaigning when the EC announced repolling for the 867 voters of the booth. It was learnt that the candidates left no stone unturned to woo the voters all over again. As a result, the polling percentage on Monday was a high 96.07 as against the earlier 73% on April 30.

There were high stakes for both the parties as the TDP-BJP combine wanted to wrest the seat and become the largest and principle opposition party as the alliance's tally in Telangana too stood at 20. The TDP-BJP's plan was to further embarrass the Congress by snatching away the seat and becoming the main opposition party. Such a victory would have given it two cabinet berths, that of opposition leader and chairman of the public accounts committee, besides memberships of various committees.

As both the parties realized the high stakes involved in the Kulwakurthy result, they swung into action. Sources said both the candidates offered as much as Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 per voter. The Congress is also contesting the BJP-TDP claim by stating that only a party and not a coalition can become the principle opposition.

However, Lok Sabha and other Assembly precedence says that alliance of parties can be considered as single group. "Especially, a pre-poll alliance is considered as single entity. If BJP and TDP give letter that their alliance was made before the poll and they fought jointly in the election and wanted to be treated as single entity, they would get preference over others," Nadendla Manohar, ex-speaker told TOI.

But in a relief for the Congress, the TDP-BJP alliance could not succeed in its attempts to defeat the grand old party in the Kulwakurthy Assembly bypoll and thereby has been unable to usurp the main opposition party tag from the former.
