
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 7:01 pm | Updated: 1:08 am, Tue May 20, 2014.

More than a year after the West Fertilizer Co. catastrophe, about two-thirds of ammonium nitrate facilities in Texas remain in areas without fire codes, a Texas Senate committee learned Monday.

State Fire Marshal Chris Connealy told the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Rural Affairs and Homeland Security that state law barring smaller counties from passing fire codes stands in the way of improving safer storage at such facilities.

Under the Texas Government Code, counties can adopt fire codes only if they have a population of 250,000 or more or sit next to a county of that size.

In a firefighter fatality report issued last week on the April 2013 West disaster, the State Fire Marshal’s Office recommended removing those restrictions. Connealy wants counties to be able to hold existing facilities to modern codes on ammonium nitrate, including fireproof storage requirements.

Connealy said many of Texas’ 95 ammonium nitrate facilities, scattered across 65 counties, store the explosive chemical in flammable wood-framed buildings like the one at West Fertilizer Co.

West Fertilizer Co.’s building was located just outside the West city limits, out of the reach of the city’s fire codes.

McLennan County has not adopted a fire code, though it has had that power since 2010 because of the growing population of neighboring Bell County. County commissioners have been discussing the possibility of adopting a fire code and creating a county fire marshal’s office to enforce it.

At the hearing Monday in Austin, West Mayor Tommy Muska spoke in favor of fire codes, saying some simple fire prevention measures could have prevented the fire and the deaths of 15 people, including 12 first responders.

Muska acknowledged that West’s own fire codes before the blast were “antiquated” but said they have been updated since then.

Muska said that as a small general law city, West has no regulatory power in the outlying areas, or extraterritorial jurisdiction, as larger cities do.

State Sen. Brian Birdwell, R-Granbury, who represents Waco and West, participated in the committee discussion Monday as a guest.

In an interview afterward, he said he wouldn’t want to force counties to adopt a fire code, but he would be open to lifting restrictions on counties that want to adopt them.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

No commercial reproduction without written consent.

Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
