
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

doesn't support college because "it sets up false expectations and fails most students," calls property taxes "immoral," and says Idahoans must "wean ourselves off the beast" of government.

"Education isn't even a legitimate role of government anyway," said the first-time candidate challenging Sen.

primary. "Where is it in the U.S. Constitution? Where did our founders promote that the role of government is to educate the public? It's not part of our history and it doesn't work."

Fresno, Calif.

, in 2011, with his wife, whom he describes as "smoking hot" in campaign literature, and their children.

households.

GOP's tea party wing and the establishment headed by Gov.

in 2012, said he's worried.

'STATE VERSION OF OBAMACARE'

, Otter's principal challenger, picked Rodriguez to introduce him at his November campaign announcement. Like Fulcher, Rodriguez said Otter's state-run health insurance exchange was his chief motive for running.

yes votes in 2013; 40 voted no.

upheld the law, Otter and Martin backed Your Health Idaho, saying they preferred a locally run exchange to one operated by the federal government.

, the loudest critic of Otter's bill.

In a third mailing, Rodriguez says Martin's "voting record is not pro-life" because he joined 18 Republicans and six Democrats in voting against a procedural motion to delay a floor vote on Otter's exchange bill to consider possible amendments, including what Sen.

, called the "Religious Liberty Amendment."

(now BYU-Idaho). "I have deep religious and personal convictions about the sanctity of life."

households at least once and returning for a second pass in the final weeks.

"The worst thing you can say about a Republican is that they're for Obamacare, they're for abortion, they're liberal and they're against the constitution," Martin said.

But Martin says he'd "rather lose than to attack" Rodriguez.

"I never, ever mention my opponent," he said. "This has been one of the worst experiences of my life. And it has been part of my own doing because I won't speak out against him, period."

Martin has responded generally, saying in a mailing that "some have recklessly attacked my conservative record." Martin's piece said he is pro-life; has an "A-" from the NRA; supports balanced budgets, lower taxes and less regulation; and that he "fought to stop Obamacare and protect states' rights."

to suspend Affordable Care Act taxes on the health care industry.

Asked directly about Rodriguez's views on education, Martin said: "I find it troublesome that he feels the government has no role in public schools."

, to establish and maintain a general, uniform and thorough system of public, free common schools."

Rodriguez said all government regulations and standards required for schools should be lifted -- "every single one" -- and said each school or district should "do whatever they want to educate the children in their school."

"We've destroyed the teacher's ability to teach," Rodriguez said. "We crush their hopes, destroy their dreams. ... I am the biggest advocate for education you'll ever find -- I just don't advocate government-controlled education because it always manipulates and plunders. It hurts teachers, parents and mostly students."

All five Rodriguez children are home-schooled.

, an honor awarded to 25 students a year that included a full-ride scholarship. He left college after a few weeks and went to work selling pagers.

"Tell the world I'm a college dropout," he said. "I am an outspoken advocate of education who promotes personal development and educational advancement without the need for four-year universities which I don't even support. ... In short, I don't support going to college for most people."

Property taxes are "immoral," Rodriguez said, "Only God holds the title deed to this Earth and at best we are just stewards."

questionnaire.

Replacing that money on a revenue-neutral basis would mean raising the current 6 percent sales tax to 21 percent. If groceries were exempted from sales tax, as Rodriguez supports, the sales tax would have to be 25 percent to compensate.

Rodriguez said he wouldn't support such a radical shift immediately, but would move to cut spending on K-12 schools, higher education and other programs.

"I wish it could be done overnight, but it can't," he said. "Giant monsters move and die slowly."

Rodriguez acknowledges he's "more of a loose and free spirit than most."

session -- waiting in the gallery to meet Martin for lunch -- "it was so boring and dull that I even questioned whether or not I should run because I doubt I could stand being in those sessions all day."
