
A special meeting to give communities an opportunity to hear the latest proposals on relocating Army families to the Salisbury Plain area is being held later this month.

As part of the Army’s Basing Programme, an additional 4,300 military personnel and their families - there are about 3,300 dependants - will move to Wiltshire by 2019.

The Ministry of Defence’s (MOD) estate management organisation – Defence Infrastructure Organisation (DIO), has put together a Masterplan which details proposals for delivering the additional infrastructure required.

The DIO has worked with Wiltshire Council and partners to ensure the right level of facilities and services, including healthcare and education provision, are in place in time for the relocation of service personnel and their families.

On May 28 there will be a special meeting, hosted by Tidworth Area Board, at the Tidworth Garrison Theatre, where the DIO will present the plans and answer questions, alongside representatives from the Army and Wiltshire Council.

Coun Jane Scott, leader of Wiltshire Council, said: “This meeting is the latest step in ensuring our communities are kept fully informed about developments so we are ready for the changes ahead.

The meeting will start at 7pm and will include a presentation on the Masterplan including the changes resulting from the public consultation which was held between February 19 and April 1.

People can view the Masterplan document at www.gov.uk/dio and at Salisbury, Tidworth, Ludgershall, Amesbury and Durrington libraries from May 20 until June 17 2014.

The Masterplan details proposals for delivering the additional infrastructure required by the Army in the Salisbury Plain area which will include: Up to 1,300 new homes for service families; New accommodation blocks for single soldiers; Construction and conversion of other buildings, such as garages, armouries, offices and mess facilities; and Future plans on the training estate.

All intended developments will be subject to the normal planning application process and environmental assessments.

These will be submitted once the proposals have been finalised and all internal MOD approvals have been given.

After reviewing more than 300 comments received during the public consultation period, DIO has updated the Masterplan to take account of this feedback.

A Statement of Community Involvement outlines all comments received during the consultation and demonstrates how they have been considered in drawing up the document. This will be published alongside the Masterplan.

DIO will submit the final Masterplan to Wiltshire Council’s Strategic Planning Committee in July 2014.

Don't be such a Jeremiah. Read the article afresh. There is a Masterplan. Everything will be alright. Relax. Trust the Masterplan.

The money will come from the same place it does for migrants who come to this country, get free health care and housing wiithout having paid a penny into our system.

At least these people are the dependants of those who are serving in our forces, I would say that entitles them!

Does it really matter as Coun Jane Scott and her cronies will do what they want as usual.

I don't think there is anything to complain about here. It is traditional that we have Army bases in Wiltshire, and it is also something we should be proud of.

Nobody told me and I heaven knows I'm miserable now.

If Mr Cameron really cared, he would provide a relocation package set down in Parliamentary Law that allows no local council to choose how much to allocate or where..

Wilts Council are busy allowing themselves and local Housing Associations the privilages of "no questions asked" Planning consents to build new Homes that very few people in Wiltshire can afford to buy..

Ms Scott's intentions to help our Forces boys, girls and their families is already turning into an Electioneering Campaign to gain brownie points for her Cons-Cab even before they get back home..

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
