
New Delhi: As the Congress meets to discuss the reaons for its debacle in the Lok Sabha elections, party leader Ashwani Kumar has said that party President Sonia Gandhi needs to lead from the front now. Speaking to CNN-IBN, Kumar also admitted that some campaign managers made mistakes.

Adding suggestions to what needs to be done to get the Congress back on track, Kumar said that the state leaders needed to be given more importance. He also added that the party needs to address any dissent within. "Dissent within the party should not be discouraged," Kumar said.

Kumar also hit out at party leaders who had criticised former prime minister Manmohan Singh. "The way the former prime minister was criticised by some ministers and partymen was not right and didn't help us," he said.

The Congress is set to review the party's election debacle at the working committee meet on Monday. Sources say that a review panel is likely to be appointed to analyse why the party failed to get even 50 seats in the Lok Sabha elections.

Sources say that it is unlikely that Sonia Gandhi and Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi will be held responsible for the election results. While Sonia and Rahul are reportedly unlikely to resign, sources add that even if Rahul does offer to resign, the CWC is unlikely to accept it.

Sources say that Congress leaders have taken the collective responsibility of shielding Rahul. However, there are murmurs within the party of some leaders questioning his leadership. Sources say that the demand is growing within the party to bring Priyanka Gandhi to the centrestage.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
