
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

The opinions here expressed strictly are my own. I serve as senior advisor, economics, for American Principles in Action and advisor to and editor of the Lehrman Institute's The Gold Standard Now .   I am editor-in-chief of thesupplyside.blogspot.com, and am, with Charles Kadlec, the author of "The 21st Century Gold Standard: For Prosperity, Security, and Liberty" This book is available for free download in ebook form here .  Charles Kadlec and I are co-editors of the Laissez Faire Books edition of Copernicus's Essay on Money.   I also authored "The Websters' Dictionary: how to use the Web to transform the world," which won the “Trophée du choix des Internauts” (“The People's Choice”) in the World e-Democracy Forum Awards, 2010, Paris, France. (Download a free and complete eBook version here .) I also manage The Gold Standard Facebook page.   I was a junior official in the Reagan White House; founder of the Prosperity Caucus; and a member of the original Supply Side movement.  Follow me on Twitter as TheWebster.

… I offer a simple way to understand the nature of the corruption that is the United States Congress today.  I also sketch out a strategy to fix it.  That corruption isn’t illegal corruption.  It’s not the bad behavior of bad souls.  It is instead the ordinary behavior of good souls within a corrupted system.  It’s legal corruption, and it has infected and poisoned our government.

Like a magnet beside a compass, or molasses in a gearbox, or a wheel not aligned: This is a system of influence that corrupts the government of our Republic.  And it is a bi-partisan, equal opportunity corruption.  It blocks the Left.  It blocks the Right.  It blocks both in the sense that it makes it harder (maybe impossible) for either side to get the principled reform that each side would push.

Lessig creates a sort of fairy tale to make his point simple and compelling.  Rather than Alice in Wonderland we get Lessig in Lesterland with Lessig casting himself more Cheshire Cat than Alice.  However, in light of the gravity of the problem, this is more epic David and Goliath than fairy tale.

“Once upon a time,” his book opens, “there was a place called ‘Lesterland.’” He uses, as a literary device, the fact that 150,000 Americans are named Lester.  And that 150,000 people fund Congressional elections.

He develops a winsome extended metaphor.  What if candidates had to gain the support of many, preferably a majority, of the 150,000 Lesters … before the rest of us got to vote? That would give “the Lesters” disproportionate influence on elections.

Lessig then notes that candidates do have to raise enough money, to run, from 150,000 self-selected campaign contributors.  Lessig does not present this as an attack on the rich or on capitalism.  It is an attack on a campaign financing system that gives disproportionate influence to around a quarter of one percent of the electorate (themselves a minute fraction of “the rich,” few of whom make political contributions).

Lessig’s demand for a system that creates, as a non-coercive option, without muzzling big donors, a bigger presence for rank-and-file voters is consistent with arguments that this right-wing columnist elsewhere has made about the crucial vitality of citizen engagement.  Since about twice as many Americans consistently describe ourselves as conservative than we do liberal it is slightly indecipherable that so many conservatives are diffident about Lessig’s proposition.

Restoring “consent of the governed” is not about Right versus Left.  It is about setting up a system to restore control of Congress to us outsiders, the people, over the insiders, the special interests, by creating an incentive for us to contribute and an incentive for candidates to take our contributions in preference to those of the special interests.  And most Congressional campaign donors are special interests — if only because they are victims of a Congressional extortion racket.

Lessig, a man of the Left, is not propounding a system to privilege Progressives (although some of his Progressive admirers are appropriating, and corrupting, his work to their own ends). He offers 200-proof pure constitutional populism.  His proposition is as consonant with Conservative principles as it is with Progressive ones.

Lessig is eloquent about how the current financing system hurts the Right at least as much as it does the Left.

The Right wants a smaller federal government.  But the current system for funding elections only gives the Congress an interest in keeping a large and invasive government.

Or think of the Right’s desire for a simpler tax system — Herman Cain’s call for a “9-9-9 plan,” for example, or Rick Perry’s call for a 20 percent flat tax.

The motivation here is not hard to understand. … So … the existing system for funding campaigns tilts Congress away from a simpler tax system — in part because complexity makes it easier for them to raise money.

The analytics are not hard.

(b)         too small a slice of America (aka, “the Funders”),

(b)         a wider slice of America (aka, “the People”).

This is not Leninism.  This is constitutional populism.

Lessig lays out the problem, his strategy, and his proposed tactics in The USA is Lesterland , following a TED talk that has drawn well over a million views, and now is coupled with a new million dollar SuperPAC, MayOne.US, designed, without irony, to end the disproportionate influence of all SuperPACs.

Most politics is engaged with maintaining the status quo or making tiny incremental changes.  Lessig proposes a radical change.

As Jefferson famously wrote in America’s fundamental mission statement, the Declaration of Independence , “Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.” Lessig thus bears a burden of proof.

America is well into its fourth decade of wage stagnation.  Many of the elements of our cost of living are inexorably rising.  The real price of gas at the pump has approximately tripled from 10 years ago.  Our wages have been flat.

Democrats call this predicament “income inequality.”  Republicans call this “inequitable prosperity.”  Or should.

Will Lessig and his allies develop more credible tactics than peer-to-peer conversations; than the underpowered rootstrikers.org; than calling upon nonprofit groups to tithe into his cause; than praying for a wave of non-politician politicians; than romantically hoping for a “Regent” presidential candidate to run … and, if elected, resign as soon as this is enacted?  Or even than a SuperPAC to take out those who do not subscribe to his agenda….

Lessig gets populism beautifully… but, in this old politico’s view, doesn’t get politicians or politics.  Quixotic mechanisms, deriving from a certain blindness to the human element of politics, weaken prospects for achieving a noble goal.  To succeed, Lessig, as David, needs five far smoother stones than these….

As former Federal Reserve Governor Henry Wallich once said, “Experience is the name we give to our past mistakes, reform that which we give to future ones.” Wikipedia notes that the first PAC was created by the CIO in response to the Taft-Hartley Act prohibiting campaign contributions by labor unions. PACs really took off in response to amendments to the Federal Election Campaign Act restricting the amount of money that could be given directly to a Congressional campaign.

That’s neither a snarky aside nor counsel of despair. This could succeed.

Is this good code? The Devil, Lessig, is in the details.

Meanwhile … The USA is Lesterland belongs at the center of our immediate and future politics.  It belongs in your mind.

Welcome to Lesterland.  Welcome to the most radical project in America today.

@lessig says he believes in “power to the people,” but the fundamental flaw in his thinking is that the 1st Amendment’s right of free speech, which his campaign finance reform seeks to curtail, is a right which empowers the person, not the people. Lessig has not thought through the unintended consequences of his proposals. If we should watch Lesterland closely, it’s because it is dangerous.

If you will read The USA is Lesterland (or watch his TED talk, free, at the above hyperlink) you will discover in Lessig a courageous champion of the 1st Amendment’s right of free speech. As for whether his proposed way to restore the legitimacy of government by restoring the “consent of the governed” is well calculated to resolving the monstrous problem we (all, right, left and center) currently confront….

the Devil, Mr. Kohn, is in the details.

Thank you for commenting.

Diffident? More likely opposed. Don’t presume conservative agreement just because the proposal benefits them politically. Some people really do have ideals apart from and above self-interest.

Ah, Mr. Stevens…. no implication meant that conservatives might embrace Lessig’s insights out of self-interest. Rather, out of principle and nobility of spirit as befits a thoughtful conservative.

Lessig presents an authentic, thought provoking, argument. Whether or not it ends up persuading you it is my educated guess that you would find it well rewarding of 20 minutes or so of the attention of any thoughtful person.

Thank you for commenting and it is my hope you will grace future columns here with your thoughts.

until he got to “inequitable prosperity.” ugh. This sort of linguistic smokescreen makes me want to throw up. Inequality is the noun in “income inequality.” The inequality is the issue. One can’t turn it into an adjective describing the positive prosperity as if it’s a simply a side note. It deflects and basically sidelines the real problem. Lame.

“Inequitable prosperity” isn’t intended as a smokescreen, rather to uncollapse certain collapsed distinctions in the phrase “income inequality” … the better to permit our policymakers to think through what it is that the body politic wishes. Which, in my assessment, is equitable prosperity (equitable in the sense of largely based on merit and effort rather than privilege and connections) … rather than raw “equality.” Sorry if this somehow tampered with your digestion…..

Still not buying it. Everybody knows that prosperity is a goal, that’s the “income” part of the puzzle. The only permitting your rephrasing does is to semantically shift the focus away from the issue. It’s subtle word play that betrays a perspective on the severity of the problem that tears at our social fabric. Subtle, but a powerful euphemism that shouldn’t be bandied about as the “haves vs the havenots” is a root cause of social unrest and revolution throughout history.

Lender. I loan money out to individuals in need of financial assistance.

reliable individuals.

Please write back if interested.

Lessig “work?” He’s a lawyer. That’s an oxymoron.

If he wants to “work,” have him open a shop and pay his people $15/hour, and see how long that can last.

My bet: he wouldn’t last a month.
