
Outside the Bossier City home of 24-year-old Jacqueline Beadle, and her roommate 26-year-old Karyl Cox, the hand-written messages, and crosses posted in the yard speak for themselves.

"Rest in paradise, Karyl and Jackie...you will be greatly missed."

Brightly-colored flowers and neon posters make a stark contrast to the vicious crime that happened inside their Bragg St. home on Mother's Day.

"They felt like there wasn't enough evidence to put charges on him or anyone else at that point in the investigation," says BCPD spokesperson Mark Natale.

That was shortly after Beadle and Cox were found shot to death, when 26-year-old Brandan Butler - described as a close friend to the two women - came in for questioning, and was found in possession of marijuana.

He was arrested, then released on bond, but his criminal history dates back years.

"He was arrested a previous time a couple of years ago on a marijuana possession charge. And back in 2006, he was arrested on a cruelty to a juvenile charge."

Natale says Butler got into a fight with a 16-year-old, leaving the minor with serious injuries.

Now, 8 years later, it's first degree murder charges.

"[Detectives] spent a lot of time on this case, obviously, a lot of long hours, continuous hours," Natale says.

The hours now spent missing the two young mothers will, no doubt, also be long.

The photos, the notes - "I love you sister.. you will always be in my heart" - mostly posted to comfort those left behind.

"It's rewarding that they can close out a case like this. Certainly, there's nothing that law enforcement can do to bring complete closure to the families of the two victims but it's a step toward some healing."

Police won't yet say if they've determined a motive for the killings.

In fact, Natale says they're releasing very few details about what detectives found to preserve the integrity of the investigation, as well as the future prosecution of Butler.

After BCPD Violent Crimes detectives secured a warrant for his arrest, Butler was found in Bogalusa, La., where he currently awaits extradition back to Bossier Parish.

His bond was set at $2 million, $1million for each count of murder.

Both women leave behind young children, who are now in the care of family members.

A fund has been set up to help with expenses for Jackie Beadle's burial and the care of her young son. It can be accessed at any Capital One bank branch in the name of "Jacqueline Beadle."

Send your news tip or story idea to the KTBS 3 Newsroom.  Enter your email address below to get started.

We're sorry, but only one entry is allowed per person.

Thank you for your continued interest.

Thank you for your submission to KTBS 3 News.  A member of our staff may contact you for more information.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTBS. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service .
