
Goodyear racing tires are shown during practice for Saturday's NASCAR Sprint Cup series auto race at Charlotte Motor Speedway in Concord, N.C. Many tire-related crashes can be avoided simply by understanding tire maintenance, understanding tire labels, keeping track of the age of your tires, and monitoring recalls.

Tires aren't just treads we replace once every few years. They help us maneuver safely and avoid  accidents ; and the grip and security they provide is not to be taken lightly.

Each year, there are nearly 11,000 tire-related crashes, and nearly 200 people die each year from those crashes.

And according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), the federal agency that oversees  vehicle  safety and tire safety, many of these crashes can be avoided simply by understanding tire maintenance, understanding tire labels, keeping track of the age of your tires, and monitoring recalls.

You probably know that you should be  checking  your tire pressure often—at least once a month, preferably when you haven’t driven the vehicle in at least three hours.

Starting with that, and distilling what we see as some very important points from a new  “TireWise” campaign  from NHTSA, take a look at the infographic here , then click through to find six more potentially life-saving tips to keep in  mind .

Tires don’t just wear; they age. Most tires age to a point at which, at six to ten years, you can have ‘ safe’  tread left yet the compound is no longer safe. Don’t wait for a blowout or tread separation before you decide to replace the tires on that older vehicle that you only take out once in a while. And yes, spares age, too.

Balance, align, rotate. Consult with your owner’s manual, and if it advises tire rotation, have it done at the recommended interval. That won’t produce any  benefits  you can immediately feel, but it will assure that your tires, as well as some driveline components, will last longer. And if you notice steering-wheel pulsation, or if your vehicle is pulling to the side when on a straight, mostly level road, take it in to your mechanic, or to a wheel and alignment expert.

Potholes can knock your pressure down. This isn’t one to take lightly either. After an unusually long, brutal winter for much of the U.S., and more snowfall than usual, many cities are in the midst of a pothole crisis. Even if there’s no vibration after an impact and the tire and wheel  look intact, the jarring impact of a pothole can temporarily break the seal of a tire to the wheel, causing a sudden loss of some but not all of the pressure—in amounts that might not be enough to set off tire-pressure sensors. If hitting severe potholes is a daily occurrence, remember to check your tires—and tire pressure—as often as you can.

Study your tread. While damaged or improperly inflated tires that go too long unchecked can lead to suspension, steering, or driveline issues, the opposite can be the case, too, and serious safety issues with your own  vehicle  can show their first signs through your tires. Beyond the standard treadwear checks, like “the penny test,” look for fraying, scalloping, cupping, or any kind of uneven wear and take it as a life-saving warning sign.

Register your tires. This one’s extremely important, and too often skipped or overlooked. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  issues about 20 tire recalls per year, and if you  register your tires’ details  (to receive e-mail recall notifications), you’re far less likely to miss a crucial  safety  issue. You can also file tire complaints independent of the  federal government’s recall channels .

Buy the right tire for your needs in the first place. Understand that the safest tires might not always be the most fuel-efficient or the longest-lasting—and that specialty tires out of their  element  can be dangerous. For instance, the soft, summer-performance tires that arrive on some top-performance models are ill-suited for cold, wet roads. Likewise, using special winter tires year round are going to cost you some safety (and a lot of tread wear) if you try to use them in hot weather.

Buying your tires from an experienced professional is your best bet, of course; but  learning  about all the ways that tires are rated and labeling—with this  Tire Buyer's FAQ —is a great start before you head there.

The Christian Science Monitor has assembled a diverse group of the best auto bloggers out there. Our guest bloggers are not employed or directed by the Monitor and the views expressed are the bloggers' own, as is responsibility for the content of their blogs. To contact us about a blogger,  click here . To add or view a comment on a guest blog, please go to the blogger's own site by clicking on the link in the blog description box above.

Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.
