
MORRISON — For many fans of some electronic-music genres, it's all about "the drop" — which happens when the DJ orchestrates repetitive, melodic beats that crescendo to a moment when "the beat drops" into a heavy, rumbling bass line that sends the crowd into an uproar of approval.

But fans at the Global Dub Festival on Friday at Red Rocks Amphitheatre were not the only ones waiting for "the drop."

Officials from Denver Arts and Venues, the town of Morrison and Jefferson County gathered inside and outside the show to measure just how far the noise from that heavy bass travels.

Denver Arts and Venues had drawn up  new noise regulations for Red Rocks in response to complaints from neighboring residents, who say the heavy bass so prevalent in electronic dance music, or EDM,  is shaking the ground, rattling windows and affecting their quality of life.

By all accounts, that was not the case Friday night during the venue's first of 12 EDM acts this concert season.

"It really wasn't very loud," said Jefferson County Commissioner Casey Tighe, who accompanied Morrison Mayor Sean Forey, Denver Arts and Venues' Dan Rowland and others on a late-night tour of the neighborhoods. "We went to various houses, and the neighbors remarked it was much more tolerable."

Everyone will continue to keep an ear to the ground during future shows, including the return, in two weeks, of Bassnectar, which neighbors say has been the loudest culprit.

"The big thing is I think everybody's on the same page," Tighe said. "The big thing moving forward is monitoring future shows."

Denver Arts and Venues will monitor whether performers fall within its new regulations from the soundboard in the center of the amphitheatre. It also set up two stations in Morrison facing the venue from the south, near residences where neighbors have complained.

The gauges will be manned throughout the summer by representatives of Boulder-based K2 Audio, which will gather the data, Rowland said.

As Morrison resident Sherry Drobnitch sat in her living room Friday night, waiting for the visit from the touring officials, she did not hear the droning bass noise she said first became a problem about five or six years ago. She was hopeful it was a good sign but said she was skeptical that the acceptable noise levels had nothing to do with the planned visit from officials. "Because I've never heard Global Dub this quiet," she said.

At saveredrocks.com , the website started by neighbors to track "the flip side of great concerts," neighbors seemed to be pleased Friday night.

"For the first time in four years, most Morrison-area residents enjoyed a relatively peaceful evening in their homes during an EDM concert," said a Saturday-morning post titled "Thank you, Denver!" It  applauded the city for its "good work."

Forey said he sensed optimism among the neighbors he visited.

"We're in partnership in this," he said. "Everyone wants to make it right."

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
