
The newest member of Congress, after only 60 days in office, has started a new federal PAC to raise funds, in addition to his regular campaign committee.

Rep. David Jolly, R-Fla., who was sworn in on March 13th, has  registered  Seagrass PAC with the Federal Election Commission. The PAC is based in Tampa, Florida, with Nancy Watkins of Robert Watkins Co., handling the duties as treasurer.

Jolly, who won a special election in March, raised $1.4 million this cycle through March 31st, including $410,000 from PACs and other committees. His campaign committee reported $19,747 cash on hand as of the end of March, with debts of 235,487. View his  financial summary .

Rep. Jolly sits on  the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.

In other filings, The Howard Coble Fund, has registered with the Internal Revenue Service as a Section 527 political organization. Rep. Howard Coble, R-N.C., is retiring at the end of this Congress. His former chief of staff/legislative director, Missy Branson, is listed as president of the organization. She is president of Branson360.

Rep. Coble had $2,586 cash on hand in his campaign committee on March 31st,and had not raised any funds since October 2013. His leadership PAC, Sharp Pencil PAC reported $4,408 cash on hand as of March 31st. During his Congressional career Coble raised $7.9 million for his campaigns, including $4.5 million from PACs and other committees. View his multi-year  financial summary .

Rep. Coble sits on the House Judiciary Committee, and is chairman of the subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet. Coble also sits on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.

To search detailed money-in-politics databases, visit Political MoneyLine .

As George Mason observed, the blessings of liberty cannot be preserved but by a firm adherence to justice, temperance, frugality, and virtue.

Political MoneyLine is about following money in politics. It's a cash register for givers, receivers and those who want to watch the flow.

Kent Cooper has been uncovering and counting political money since 1972, when new disclosure laws took effect. He was assistant staff director for the Federal Election Commission's disclosure office for 22 years.

Tony Raymond was at the FEC for more than 20 years, analyzing reports and serving as the FEC's first webmaster.

They currently produce the Political MoneyLine website on CQ.com and developed its earlier versions: FECInfo, Public Disclosure Inc., and Tray.com.

Receive an email when a new Moneyline post is published.

Receive daily coverage of the people, politics and personality of Capitol Hill.
