
CHEYENNE - State Rep. Mary Throne has announced her bid for another term in office.

The four-term Democrat from Laramie County said there are a number of outstanding issues she hopes to tackle in the Legislature over the next two years.

Chief among them, she said, is the need to readdress the Legislative Stabilization Reserve Account, a rainy-day fund that already holds nearly $1.7 billion, with some legislators pushing to double that amount.

"We need to have an honest discussion about the LSRA. The majority party wants to put a whole biennium's worth of cash in that reserve, and it just sits there," Throne said Friday. "I think taxpayer dollars are collected to do the work of the taxpayers. I would like to see it used as a true stabilization account, so we can have long-term, predictable revenues."

Throne said that while the reserve account is important to maintain given the volatility of Wyoming's economy, which relies heavily on the unpredictable energy sector, she feels at least some of that money could be used to address immediate needs, like the state's road and bridge infrastructure.

She said that by continuing to squirrel money away in the account, rather than apply it to existing needs, Republicans in the Legislature are doing a disservice to the state's residents. While future economic instability is a reasonable concern, she said it makes little sense to save billions in anticipation of that instability while neglecting existing priorities.

"The view of the majority party to me is based on this gloom-and-doom scenario that we need to have all this cash on hand because Wyoming's going to fall apart," Throne said. "If we have all this money in essentially short-term accounts just parked there, and we're not using it to plan for the future ... are we going to be in good shape if our roads have all fallen apart in the meantime?"

Throne said she would also like to revisit the issue of Medicaid expansion, which made some progress in the prior legislative session but still failed to come to a final vote.

"My first priority would be to try to get Medicaid expansion through," she said. "That's a situation where common sense took a hike. But we're losing money by not supporting it. We really need to make that happen."

She also emphasized the need to support modern standards in Wyoming's education system, including de-emphasizing the current focus on standardized testing to the detriment of all else.

"I've worked really hard to streamline some of our statewide testing, and that's one of my main reasons to come back - it's gotten out of control again," she said. "Kids are spending too much time testing and not enough time learning. We need to continue to make sure we provide an excellent education to our K-12 students; we can't keep going backward on education."

Throne said one reason she's looking forward to serving a fifth term in the Legislature is that she feels she's developed the relationships and clout necessary to help move legislation through the body. While Throne has authored or co-sponsored close to 20 bills in the eight years she has served, she said her proudest accomplishments aren't necessarily the ones that bear her name.

"We need some senior folks on the House side who know how the process works and know how to get things done," she said. "You need to know how to build coalitions to get things done, and I think at this point in my legislative career, I've developed the relationships I need and understand the process well enough to really accomplish a lot."

Throne represents House District 11, which primarily covers the central part of Cheyenne, south of Pershing Boulevard and north of Campstool Road. College Drive is the district's eastern boundary, while Central Avenue is the western boundary.

Republican and Democratic candidates have until May 30 to file for the race.

Wyoming will hold its primary election Aug. 19 and its general election Nov. 4.

State representatives, which serve a term of two years, are paid $150 per day of work during the session and interim committee meetings. Lawmakers are also eligible for a $109 per diem for each day of work.

Occupation: Attorney with Throne Law Office P.C.
