
Genomic Health, Inc. ( GHDX ) reported positive data from three studies of the Oncology DX prostate cancer test, which have been published in European Urology.

The peer-reviewed publication highlights those studies which focus on addressing the need of the large share of prostate cancer patients who are candidates for active surveillance.

The results demonstrated the 17-gene Oncotype DX Genomic Prostate Score ( GPS ) as a significant predictor of disease aggressiveness at the time of diagnosis – before intervention with radiation or surgery. The GPS also provides more precise and customized risk assessment beyond currently available risk factors to help physicians and their prostate cancer patients confidently select the most appropriate mode of treatment.

Genomic Health has developed and validated the Oncotype DX prostate cancer test in collaboration with Cleveland Clinic and University of California, San Francisco (:UCSF). The test caters to the challenges of local prostate cancer diagnosis and treatment by revealing the underlying biology of the tumor and using genes from multiple biologic pathways to predict the aggressiveness of prostate cancer, if diagnosed.

Each year, more than 210,000 U.S. men are diagnosed with prostate cancer based on their needle biopsies. However, the existing methods of examining the very small amounts of tissue obtained by needle biopsy under the microscope are not adequate and accurate enough to predict whether more aggressive disease still remains in the prostate. This limitation has led most men to decide to treat prostate cancer immediately; despite the disease having less than three percent chances of causing significant medical problems during their lifetime.

Each cancer has unique tumor biology that determines specific clinical behavior. Based on that, Genomic Health has developed tests — each with distinct genes across multiple pathways — to address the most relevant concerns of breast, colon and prostate cancer patients.

The company believes that based on the aforementioned study results, the use of GPS can potentially increase the number of men who can confidently opt for active surveillance by 20% to 30%. The ability of prostrate cancer patients to define their individual risk of aggressive disease more precisely signifies a meaningful step forward in precision cancer care.
