
THE HOUSE AND SENATE: Beacon Hill Roll Call records the votes of local representatives on five roll calls and local senators on six from the week of May 12-16.

CHANGES IN ELECTION LAWS (H 4207): House 147-4, Senate 38-0, approved a bill making changes in the state's election laws. Key provisions allow online voter registration; 16- and 17-year-olds to "pre-register" to vote and automatically be qualified to vote upon turning 18; and early voting beginning 10 business days before any primary or general election and ending two days before the election.

YES: Reps. Stephen DiNatale, Kimberly Ferguson, Sheila Harrington, Harold Naughton, Dennis Rosa, Jonathan Zlotnik; Sens. Stephen Brewer, James Eldridge.

DIDN'T VOTE: Rep. Jennifer Benson, Sen. Jennifer Flanagan.

YES: Reps. Ferguson, Harrington.

DIDN'T VOTE: Rep. Benson.

YES: Reps. DiNatale, Naughton, Rosa, Zlotnik.

NO: Reps. Ferguson, Harrington.

DIDN'T VOTE: Rep. Benson.

WITHHOLD $65 MILLION UNTIL HEALTH CONNECTOR REPORT IS MADE (H 4069): House 110-40, rejected an amendment that would withhold $65 million in funding for the Obamacare Health Connector until the state conducts a review and provides the Legislature with a report outlining the financial impact of the Connector's failed website.

YES: Reps. DiNatale, Ferguson, Harrington, Zlotnik.

NO: Reps. Naughton, Rosa.

DIDN'T VOTE: Rep. Benson.

YES: Reps. DiNatale, Naughton, Rosa, Zlotnik.

NO: Reps. Ferguson, Harrington.

DIDN'T VOTE: Rep. Benson.

YES: Sens. Brewer, Eldridge, Flanagan.

DESIGNER DRUGS (S 2133): Senate 33-6, rejected an amendment that would make "designer drugs" illegal. Designer drugs are drugs that are manufactured by drug dealers with slightly changed chemical compounds so that they are technically not illegal.

NO: Sens. Brewer, Eldridge, Flanagan.

NO: Sen. Brewer, Eldridge, Flanagan.

YES: Sen. Eldridge.

NO: Sens. Brewer, Flanagan.

DELAY $65 MILLION FUNDING FOR CONNECTOR AUTHORITY'S WEBSITE (H 4069): Senate, 33-4, rejected an amendment that would require Gov. Deval Patrick to request a federal waiver to allow the state to reinstitute its original 2006 health-care website exchange, rather than continue to spend money trying to build a new website that would comply with Obamacare regulations.

NO: Sens. Stephen Brewer, James Eldridge.

DIDN'T VOTE: Sen. Flanagan.

HOW LONG WAS LAST WEEK'S SESSION? During the week of May 12-16, the House met for a total of five hours and 22 minutes and the Senate met for a total of four hours and 29 minutes.

TRANSGENDER PROTECTION (H 3625): The House and Senate approved and sent to Gov. Patrick a bill that would add gender identity as a class protected from discrimination in the Boston housing market and give the Boston Fair Housing Commission enforcement powers. Current law prohibits discrimination in several areas including race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, religion, handicap, source of income and military status.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE VIOLATIONS BY LOCAL OFFICIALS (H 3760): The House and Senate approved and sent to Gov. Patrick a bill that would prohibit a municipal candidate from appearing on the ballot if civil proceedings for failure to file his or her campaign finance reports on time have been initiated. These are the same penalties that are currently imposed on candidates for state and county office.

Supporters said it is time to eliminate this unfair loophole that favors municipal candidates.

PROHIBIT SHACKLING OF PREGNANT INMATES (S 3978): Gov. Patrick signed into law a bill that would prohibit the shackling of a female prisoner during pregnancy, labor and delivery. The proposal also establishes minimum standards for the treatment and medical care of pregnant prisoners including adequate nutrition and prenatal care.

USED MATTRESSES (H 263): The House gave initial approval to a measure requiring the labeling of any mattress, box spring, studio couch or futon mattress that has been used by a consumer and returned to the store for resale. The required wording on the label would indicate that "this mattress, box spring, studio couch or futon mattress has been previously sold, delivered, used and returned and is being offered for resale."

TELEMARKETERS MUST SHOW REAL PHONE NUMBER (H 285): The House gave initial approval to a bill that would prohibit "spoofing," a practice used by telemarketing companies to have a phony telephone number show up on a consumer's Caller ID. The number would have to be "a legitimate number in which the consumer can directly communicate with the solicitor." Current law only prohibits the telemarketers from blocking their phone number from appearing on Caller ID.

HOW LONG WAS LAST WEEK'S SESSION? During the week of May 12-16, the House met for a total of five hours and 22 minutes and the Senate met for a total of four hours and 29 minutes.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Sign in with a Disqus account or your social networking account for your comment to be posted immediately, provided it meets the guidelines. ( READ HOW .) Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion of The Sentinel and Enterprise. So keep it civil.
