
From tiny Pacific island nations to America's largest cities, a look at the impacts already being felt from climate change around the world.

Urban heat islands could raise city temperatures to levels that threaten health, energy resources and economic productivity.

The warning was issued at an annual meeting devoted to finding ways to protect the iconic lake on the California-Nevada border, one of the nation's largest and deepest freshwater lakes.

In the latest sign of more changes afoot, waves are swelling to heights never before seen in the Arctic Ocean — a shift that’s tied to the loss of sea ice and could further exacerbate it.

In a new report, NASA scientists report they have found that in the last 50 years, the snowpack over Arctic sea ice has thinned by as much as half.

An environmental hazard, the "Great Pacific Garbage Patch," is growing in the ocean between Hawaii and California, and it is already having a negative impact on the eco-system.

When heavy rains hit, municipal sewer systems are often overwhelmed, dumping a mix of storm water and untreated sewage into nearby waterways.

Where is global warming already having major impacts? From South Florida to the Arctic, here's where the effects of climate change are being felt already.

Overfishing is driving the fish to extinction, a new study reports.

If any elephants are to survive, all ivory trade must stop, a new study examining the viability of regulated trade concludes.

A toxic algae bloom 1.5 times the size of Rhode Island is moving towards Florida. This toxic algae can be fatal to marine life and harmful to humans.

The future of water in the West is becoming more uncertain as the climate warms and the sources millions of people rely on -- like the Colorado River -- face unprecedented challenges.

A famous designer has created a logo to raise awareness about climate change.

The Gulf of Mexico's dead zone may be shrinking, but not nearly as much as scientists had hoped.

Increased rainfall and warmer water temperatures factors that not only contribute to more toxic blooms, but blooms that can last longer.

What's known as "the vine that ate the South" is beginning to make it's way north as the planet continues to warm up.

The extent of sea ice covering the Arctic Ocean at the end of the summer season will likely rank as one of the lowest minimum extents in the record books.

Ever wanted to see a polar bear not in a zoo, but in its natural habitat? If you've got $20,000 to plunk down for this one-of-a-kind cruise to the Arctic, this is your chance.

See why officials think this Chinese river keeps turning a nasty shade of red.

A new study provides shocking proof that the West's drought is more dire than ever thought before.

At nearly three miles across and 3/4 of a mile deep, Utah's Bingham Canyon Mine is deep enough to fit two of Chicago's Willis Towers stacked on top of one another.

In Chicago's low-income neighborhoods, flooding has become more frequent in recent years as torrential rains cause the city's aging sewers to back up and overflow into homes more often.

Frozen Actor Josh Gad tells Al Roker about a theme he saw in the movie - and this one isn't about Elsa and Anna.

The United States is the world's number-one climate change denying nation, according to the results of a new poll by the British survey group Ipsos Mori.

A new report says the U.S. scored 13th in global energy efficiency ranking, or near the bottom of the world's 16 largest economies.

17 Years after a ship tossed millions of Lego pieces into the sea, they are still washing up on the shores of Cornwall, England.
