
The landslide victory of Narendra Modi-led BJP in the Lok Sabha election marks a watershed in Indian politics.

The BJP has stormed to power by winning a staggering 282 of its own, 10 seats more than the majority mark. The tally of BJP-led NDA rose to a record 336.

The scale of BJP’s victory could be read from the fact that no single party got an absolute majority on its own since 1984. Thanks to the Modi wave, BJP has done the virtually impossible in an era of coalition politics.

The Congress-led UPA has been booted out of the office with its tally dipping to a measly 60 seats. The Gandhi family-owned Congress bagged a mere 44 seats, not even the minimum number required to be recognised as a legitimate Opposition.

Modi wave has decimated the Congress. Never before in the history of Indian Parliamentary elections, had the grand old party balled up so bad. Remember, during the 1976 Lok Sabha election, Indira Gandhi-led Congress won 154 seats. This time, Sonia-led Congress couldn’t even touch 50.

TsuNaMo has made several big UPA Ministers bite the dust. Prominent among them are Sushil Kumar Shinde, Salman Khurshid, Kapil Sibal, Beni Prasad Verma, Sriprakash Jaiswal, Farooq Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ajit Singh, Jitin Prasad, Sachin Pilot and Milind Deora.

The BJP has swept Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The party has made a clean sweep in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Goa and Himachal Pradesh, pushing the Congress into ignominy.

Verdict 2014 marks an end to Congress’s nasty dynastic rule. The people of the country has given a fitting riposte to the Congress for the sins it committed against the nation. This is the beginning of the end of the Congress, first step towards a Congress-mukt Bharat.

BJP fought this election on the plank of development and good governance. In contrast, Congress contested the election on secular rhetoric. The nation has accepted BJP and rejected the Congress.

2014 Lok Sabha election was fought between Narendra Modi and the rest. Modi stood tall in the battle field, leading the BJP from the front. And on the other side, there was Congress and its ‘secular’ cohorts SP, BSP, JD (U), RJD, National Conference, AAP and their likes.

It won’t be wrong to say that the Election Commission (I regret to say) also joined the Congress in its stop-Modi campaign. This poll will be remembered for the partisan role of the Election Commission which singled out Narendra Modi for targeted action. Chief Election Commissioner VS Sampath is sure to go down in the history as the most controversial Election Commissioner who openly favoured Congress.

But fighting all odds, Modi came out victorious.

No other political leader across the world has ever reached out to the people, as extensively as Modi did in this election. The 63-year-old leader on his campaign trail has covered more than three lakh kilometres and connected with people in as many as 6000 locations.

NaMo has charted his vision for new India. People of the country are indeed moved by his ideas. They have responded to it by giving the BJP an astounding victory.

It is a proud moment for the Indian democracy as a humble Chaiwala from Ahmedabad is going to be sworn in as the Prime Minister. The citizens now feel secure as the nation is safe in the hands of icon of development and good governance. There is no dispute that under Modi’s leadership, India will go from strength to strength. The nation awaits a better tomorrow. Achchhey din aane wale hain!

Please read our terms of use before posting comments.

TERMS OF USE: The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject, or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate mail, or violate privacy of any person (s) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).

yes. truly india now have mazdoor number one in narendra modi. and he certainly will take india to its glorious period for all of Indians.

Baba used to say that after 2012 He will change the country in particular and the world in general and Modi’s ascension to the seat of power is part of that mission!
