
By LEONARD PITTS JR.

A hypothetical scenario: Your little boy lies in a hospital bed, stricken by a mysterious, potentially fatal disease. You are frightened and in despair.

A hypothetical scenario: Your little boy lies in a hospital bed, stricken by a mysterious, potentially fatal disease. You are frightened and in despair.

But your community rallies around you. Soon, the whole town is talking about your ordeal. Neighbors you have never spoken to send cards. Co-workers you have never socialized with send encouraging text messages.

None of it changes the objective fact of your son's condition, doesn't kill a virus, lessen a fever or ease his pain. All it does is tell you that you and your child are being thought of, that you are not alone.

Rush Limbaugh would say it was. The National Review would find it "simple-minded." George Will would regard it as "an exercise in self-esteem."

Or at least that is what they have said about a roughly analogous situation.

You probably know the story. A terrorist group in Nigeria kidnaps nearly 300 school girls. The reason is found in the abhorrent ideology from which it derives its name: Boko Haram — Western Education Is Forbidden. The families of the girls turn to their government for help, and it shrugs. The story is likewise ignored in America by "news" media too busy handicapping the chances of Hillary Clinton's grandchild in the 2054 midterms to bother with anything so picayune as a mass kidnapping.

So supporters take to Twitter with a hashtag: #BringBackOurGirls. It spreads like fire. Michelle Obama, Ellen DeGeneres, Malala Yousafzai, Jesse Jackson, Amy Poehler and millions of lesser-known names all join the campaign.

Does it "solve" the problem? Of course not. Who would be so naive as to think it would? Is it the only thing we should be doing in response? Again, no.

But does the international attention spur Nigeria's lackadaisical government to take the abduction more seriously and to accept international help — including from the United States — it has previously spurned? Yes. Does the hashtag campaign force media to pay attention to a tragedy that was being ignored? Again, yes. Moreover, it delivers to the parents of these girls the same simple, sustaining message as the cards and texts in the hypothetical above: We are with you.

It's hard to see how anyone — anyone — could regard that as a bad thing. But at least some political conservatives do. As noted, Limbaugh, Will and the National Review have all pronounced themselves unimpressed. Donald Trump, Ann Coulter and Fox's Steve Doocy have also made attempts at ridicule.

There is something more than usually saddening about that.

It is a truth curdling into cliche that American politics is riven by a partisan gap, left wing and right wing estranged from each other like the husband and wife in some long, bad marriage. But in its behavior here, the right does not so much seem estranged from a competing ideology as from its own humanity.

Apparently, yes. Once upon a time, we put politics to the side when tragedy came. Nowadays, that's something we seem less and less able — or willing — to do. That's a tragedy in itself.

Nearly 300 innocent girls were taken by madmen. Celebrities, political figures and everyday people wrote the social media equivalent of a petition to express their concern. That simple gesture begat a controversy — and gave us a sobering new measurement of that partisan gap.

Apparently, it's so wide even compassion cannot get across.

Leonard Pitts Jr., winner of the 2004 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, is a Miami Herald columnist.

rhansing posted at 4:31 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

".... hyperpartisan America, there's no room for compassion" Read your column before you talk about hyperpartisan America.

LP critisizes hyperpartisanship and than he does the very thing he critizes... hyperpartisanship.

This seems like circular reasoning. He sets up the premse, and repeats the premise in the body of the article.

".... hyperpartisan America, there's no room for compassion" Read your column before you talk about hyperpartisan America.

LP criticizes hyperpartisanship and then he does the very thing he criticizes... hyperpartisanship.

This seems like circular reasoning. He sets up the premise, and repeats the premise in the body of the article.

MP Braun posted at 5:04 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I understand what you are saying Ron, but can you agree on the premise that hyper-partisanship on both sides is destroying any chance at meaningful dialogue? I found the denigration of #BringBackOurGirls by some republican pundits to be unnecessary and mean-spirited, and it appears that the only reason for the vitriol was that Michelle Obama took part in it. I don’t think that it’s hyper-partisan to point this out as an example of what we as a society are doing wrong - and you are welcomed to use examples from the left if it makes you feel better.

rhansing posted at 11:24 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Absolutely.... I am disgusted with both parties. Equally,  My observations from the tribune is that there is this tendency to be more hypercritical of hyper partisanship  of the Republicans and ignore that of the Democrats. Perhaps this is a false perspective on my part, but perhaps I have this feeling since I read very few of the conservative articles.. because I automatically know it’s a waste of time. Yet, when I read the more liberal writers, I keep hoping to find some substance, yet, alas, samo garbage; hence, I post a negative comment… My purpose is not to pick on the democrats, but to educate people on the slick methods of propaganda, these lessons can and should be applied to both political views. I simply just want a well-reasoned article expressing ones position. Today, the people are bamboozled with ‘sound Bite Journalism (both sides) and the result is dumbing down American literacy.

Take the Darko cartoon on the VA Medical Centers. His sound bite only purpose is to say, “Gotyou”. And imply that the issues is black and white. It is not. Today, delays in seeing a specialist is not just a VA problem but a problem with all medical centers. Just try and get an appointment with a psychiatrist and you will recognize that this is a universal problem. A problem that does not need sound bites, but getting together and talking. BTW, there was a great article in the WSJ, last week about the VA, buried in the back pages, but the gist was that there hasn’t even be an investigation. And yet all we hear are a few people who are making charges, we presume automatically accept as true. That is not the case. First, we hear that perhaps some people died out of forty, and that morphed into 40 killed and now all the VA’s are involved in this “cover up”. Keep in mind that the VA is funded by Congress… and funding is aimed at cost savings. So, if there is a problem, don’t blame the care givers, but blame the politicians who now are shouting for scalps with the frenzy of the a pack of piranhas. Ask this question, are them pandering for votes or do they really care about medical care for veterans.

The only way we are going to solve the problems today is to talk frankly and opening and respectful. The problem is that we cannot have open dialogue.

I find most op ed articles off the wall and prejudicial from both sides. But every so often we get some super gems. Like the three part series by one of our local lawyers, VanMatrie. The ones from the local banker, forget his name, Walter Williams, and a few others.

Sorry for the lecture. thanks for you great comment. Forgive me, bu tI'm a teacher.

MP Braun posted at 3:33 pm on Wed, May 21, 2014.

I agree with your comments, Ron. Constant drama and controversy sells newspapers, but it's a lousy way to run a government.

1 Our policy regarding reader comments Be courteous. Don't post comments that are abusive, defamatory, illegal, libelous or obscene. It is possible to debate without engaging in personal attacks. We cannot review every comment, but we reserve the right to remove or delete comments at any time. For more information, read our commenting guidelines or FAQ's regarding comments.

Getting your house cleaned just got more affordable!
