
Take a look at the stories from around our area and world that are making news today.

Courts to decide whether John Doe a useful tool or unfair witch hunt: Jason Stein, Patrick Marley and Daniel Bice of the Journal Sentinel report: "Earlier this month, (U.S. District Judge Rudolph) Randa took the unusual step of halting the current (John Doe) investigation. Prosecutors face the threat of legal damages. And the secret legal procedure used to conduct these investigations might get revised next year by furious Republican lawmakers. Have Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm and special prosecutor Francis Schmitz, who is now spearheading the current investigation, gone too far? And are they outmatched by the conservative adversaries who are seeking to shift the cross hairs from themselves onto the prosecutors? In the coming weeks and months, the Wisconsin Supreme Court and the U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago are expected to help answer those questions. The fallout could affect everything from the 2014 state elections and how campaign finance laws are interpreted to the rules the authorities will have to follow when investigating their next case of routine embezzlement." Read more.

City of Madison's equity data team intent on tracking progress on racial disparities: Meghan Chua of the Isthmus writes: "For a city of Madison team charged with finding ways to promote racial equity in the city, there's one clear path -- follow the numbers. 'Data is integral to the success of our equity work,' says Angela Russell, a member of the city's equity data team. The team is part of Madison's Racial Equity and Social Justice Initiative, which Mayor Paul Soglin unveiled at a Tuesday press conference as a way for the city to commit to equity in city operations, including budgeting and policy decisions. Russell says data is what brought 'the really atrocious inequalities in our community' to light. And, going forward, it is a way to keep the city accountable in its efforts to move toward racial equity. 'In order to ensure that Madison is a great place where everyone has the opportunity to thrive and to live up to their full potential, we need to have a solid benchmark to measure our progress over time,' Russell says. The equity data team presented some of the statistics they have already gathered relevant to racial equity to city staff and community members." Read more.

Veterans see cancer bill as 'black mark' on Walker: Scott Bauer of the Associated Press writes: "Gov. Scott Walker touts all he has done for Wisconsin's veterans since taking office more than three years ago, making it a focus of his re-election efforts as he frequents events around the state with service members. But some veterans say Walker's refusal to pardon a decorated Iraqi war veteran and support for legislation they oppose show he doesn't have their true interests in mind, an argument that could tarnish the image he presents to patriotic conservatives. Jason Johns, an Iraqi combat veteran, Republican lobbyist for veterans groups and a former deputy secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs under Walker, said veterans who previously wouldn't think twice about voting for Walker now aren't so sure." Read more.

Julie Lassa critical of unfair pay for women in workforce: The Associated Press reports: "A central Wisconsin State Senator wants the state’s equal pay for equal work provisions reinstated. The law that required employers to pay men and women equally for comparable jobs was repealed in 2012. Senator Julie Lassa argues that it isn’t fair. 'In Wisconsin, most mothers work outside the home. It would make mom’s life a whole lot easier if she made the same wages as the men she works alongside. Despite the fact that most homes in America and in Wisconsin are led by two wage earning adults, women still earn only 77% as much as men on average, nationally.' Lassa says a woman doing the same job as a man starting January 1st 2013 would have to work until April 8th of this year to catch up to the man’s annual income." Read more.

Copyright 2014 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Or just like Justice Prosser of our Supreme Court. We could sit here all day with comparisons.But you're right partisanship reigns these days..Division is the key element.

Since EVERYTHING is partisan -- EVEN THE COURTS, the John Doe notion is a witch hunt. I say the courts are partisan because a lot of judges, such as Lynn Adelman, once served in the legislature and worked hard either for or against many of the situations that arise before his bench. Others are elected in areas where one political ideology rules, such as in Dane County. While it's not a conflict of interest, it is definitely a matter of political will.

Vote!

It's great. Madison is moving forward and growing!

The road construction is needed, but all the development is overkill.

The development is needed, but there's too much road construction.

There's too much construction (road and building) all together!

As long as it doesn't impact my life negatively, I don't care!

Username & Password Required!
