
Tue, May 20, 2014, 12:36 am SL Time, ColomboPage News Desk, Sri Lanka.

May 19, Colombo: The Sri Lanka Pakistan Friendship Association (SLFPA) in collaboration with Pakistan High Commission held a felicitation dinner, last evening, to honor SLFPA's immediate past President General Srilal Weerasooriya in recognition of the conferment of high civil award on him by the Government of Pakistan.

The Ex-Army Commander and Sri Lanka's Former High Commissioner to Pakistan, General Weerasooriya was decorated with Sitara-i-Pakistan on the National Day of Pakistan at Aiwan e Sadar Islamabad, by President Mamnoon Hussain.

The Sitara-i-Pakistan was awarded to General Weerasooriya in recognition of his commendable contributions to promote and enhance Pakistan Sri Lanka Bilateral Relations.

The citation read out at the investiture ceremony on 23rd March 2014, inter alia stated that "during [General Weerasooriya's] ambassadorial assignment, he played a key role in strengthening and deepening Pakistan-Sri Lanka friendly cooperative ties, including the signing of a Free Trade Agreement between the two countries."

The association of General Weerasooriya with Pakistan began in 1963 when he was enrolled as a Gentleman Cadet at the Pakistan Military Academy, and it continues to date, with the effect of fostering strong commercial and diplomatic ties between the two nations.

Project Chairperson Fathima Razk Cader made the opening remarks and invited Fazal Lafir, Secretary of SLPFA to introduce the dignitaries at the Head Table.

The President of Sri Lanka Pakistan Friendship Association, Mr Iftikhar Aziz congratulated the General on behalf of the entire membership of SLPFA on this singular achievement. He also presented a souvenir to General Weerasooriya as a token of remembrance.

Pakistan's Deputy High Commissioner Ms. Amna Baloch read out the message of felicitation on behalf of the High Commissioner of Pakistan Qasim Qureshi.

The President and members of the Sri Lankan Pakistan Friendship Association, Vice Patrons Prof. Tony Furqan, General and Mrs. Gerry de Silva, officers of the High Commission of Pakistan, Pakistani expatriate community and guests from a cross section of society were present on the occasion.
