
New Delhi: The Congress Working Committee meeting began on Monday to review party's worst ever electoral performance in the Lok Sabha polls as the party just won 44 seats in the 543-member House. The meeting is being held at the party headquarters.

All the members of the CWC including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress President Sonia Gandhi and party's Vice President Rahul Gandhi were present at the meeting.

Sources said senior party leader and former Defence Minister AK Antony can be named as the leader of the Opposition in the House. Sources added that a review panel is likely to be appointed to analyse why the party failed to get even  50 seats.

Even as the CWC meeting is underway, Youth Congress workers were seen shouting slogans in support of Rahul outside party headquarters.

Sources said that the Congress Working Committee may resign en masse over the humiliating defeat the party suffered. Sources added that the CWC members will endorse their president Sonia Gandhi's line of taking collective responsibility in a bid to shield their Vice President Rahul Gandhi who led the party campaign for the elections.

Sonia and Rahul had earlier taken the responsibility for the party's rout in the polls.

The party has also refuted reports that only Sonia and Rahul will quit over the debacle. "The question of Sonia and Rahul resigning does not even arise. It's a collective responsibility. I am equally responsible," party leader Manish Tewari said.

Renuka Chowdhury seconded him. She said, "There is no question of us evaluating Rahul Gandhi. We have to hit the ground as we have Assembly elections coming in six months. We have to get our act together and have to deliver."

The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, has trained its guns on Sonia and Rahul. "The Congress has lost all its credibility. That is why Sonia and Rahul are shirking responsibility," party leader Giriraj Singh said.

The lone Congress leader to pin the blame for the electoral defeat on Rahul Gandhi was former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar. He told CNN-IBN that the party's "campaign managers" made mistakes. He also said that it was high time Sonia led the party.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
