
Ohio Governor John Kasich has found popularity with the legacy press the only way a Republican can, by expanding government and questioning the morals of anyone who does not.

In a January 2014 piece titled, “ The Republican Presidential Contender Everyone’s Overlooking ,” National Journal asserted that Kasich’s record “compares favorably with any of the top-tier candidates” for the 2016 GOP nomination.

This is the case for the same reason that John Kasich is suddenly the favorite Republican of many media elites.

“First, he did an end run around his state’s Legislature — controlled by his own party — to proceed with the federally funded expansion of Medicaid that is an important piece of Obamacare,” Paul Krugman explained in an October 2013 New York Times column .

John Kasich “occasionally sounds more like an heir to Lyndon B. Johnson than to Ronald Reagan,” reporter Trip Gabriel opined.

Far from a one-off, Kasich’s remark was consistent with months of prickly reactions from the governor to critics of his decision to use Obamacare money for a radical redefinition of Ohio’s Medicaid program. For the press, the boilerplate “war on the poor” line was a story by virtue of who said it.

Secretive “job creation” agency JobsOhio notwithstanding, Kasich’s governorship was off to a good start – including a phase-out of Ohio’s estate tax – until a state senator submitted a 300-page public employee union reform bill in early 2011.

With his approval rating in the 30s after Big Labor’s subsequent $40 million smear campaign against empowering taxpayers, Kasich decided that further empowering government was the way to win back swing voters’ support. Ohio’s press, led by Kasich donor and Columbus Dispatch publisher John Wolfe , agreed.

“In pursuing an expansion of Medicaid under the federal health-care overhaul, Gov. John Kasich wisely is putting pragmatism before party and ideology,” the Dispatch editorial board wrote the week after Kasich’s plan to enact the Obamacare expansion was unveiled.

“Kasich offers some very smart, humane ideas that will both improve the lot of workaday Ohioans and make it harder for Democratic critics to caricature him,” wrote the Cleveland Plain Dealer’s editors.

Kasich, who had warned on the 2010 campaign trail that Medicaid expansion would “stick states with large and unsustainable costs,” proceeded to push the expansion as the only way to help heroin addicts and the mentally ill.

Referencing his Christian faith and the teachings of “the Good Book,” Kasich made frequent public attempts to shame the Ohio General Assembly into expanding Medicaid.

“For those that live in the shadows of life, those who are the least among us, I will not accept the fact that the most vulnerable in our state should be ignored,” Kasich said during a lengthy portion of his 2013 State of the State address devoted to the Obamacare expansion.

Kasich’s suggestion that opposing him would have eternal consequences didn’t concern the press, which again leapt to attack Kasich’s critics.

“An unapologetic conservative is fighting the tea party and his own Republican legislature because he thinks the less privileged people of Ohio deserve health coverage,” The Washington Post’s E.J. Dionne swooned .

Warning that “Ohio’s” share of promised Obamacare money would go to other states if Ohio rejected the expansion, Kasich said Medicaid expansion would simply “bring back Ohio’s tax dollars” – and insisted the expansion had nothing to do with Obamacare .

The Buckeye Institute, Opportunity Ohio, Cato Institute, Foundation for Government Accountability, Heritage Foundation, and others would beg to differ.

These are all facts that were explained to the legislature, which Kasich ultimately circumvented for the Obamacare expansion , and to the press, which cheered Kasich on.

First and foremost, the Kasich Administration controls the Ohio Republican Party. Outsiders who rely on the state GOP for news from Ohio are getting their information from an organization whose sole purpose is the advancement of John Kasich’s political career.

Second, it helps that Kasich was a Fox News host for several years after leaving Congress in 2001. The governor appears on Fox often, and the rare challenging questions he faces always seem to be sandwiched between praise for his strong conservative record.

Krugman, Dionne, MSNBC hosts, and other national media figures recognize the importance of Kasich’s not-so-limited approach to limited government, but one of Ohio’s top political reporters needed a nudge to see the story angle.

Kasich’s comments were dissected the day after he made them in a story shared by hundreds of readers at Media Trackers and thousands more at RedState, but old-media forays into conservative philosophy rarely allot space for observations from conservatives.

Why, indeed.
