
MANILA, Philippines—Lamenting that suspected pork barrel scam operator Janet Napoles was treated better, militant groups and lawmakers blamed the Aquino administration for the death of the newborn baby of suspected New People’s Army leader Andrea Rosal on Sunday.

The Gabriela women’s group said authorities’ refusal to bring Rosal to a hospital much earlier contributed to the death of her two-day-old daughter, Diona Andrea, who passed away at the Philippine General Hospital due to oxygen deficiency in the blood.

Rosal was arrested in March on the strength of a warrant for a kidnapping with murder charge, which she had contested. She was seven months pregnant when she was nabbed in Caloocan City.

She was transferred to the PGH last week, when she was close to giving birth.

Gabriela also said that after her arrest, Rosal lived in poor conditions at a detention center that were unsuitable for an expectant mother.

Gabriela secretary general Joms Salvador said there was a clear disparity between the treatment of Rosal and Napoles, an alleged key player in the P10-billion scheme to turn lawmakers’ pork barrel funds into kickbacks.

Napoles has been confined at the Ospital ng Makati since March 31 to undergo surgery on her uterus. She remains confined there up to the present.

“While Napoles, who stole millions from the Filipino people, is given preferential treatment and remains in the hospital weeks after her operation, Rosal was not allowed access to medical services until she was about to give birth,” Salvador said in a statement.

Gabriela party-list lawmakers, for their part, said the Aquino administration was liable for the death of Rosal’s child.

According to them, the authorities’ treatment of Rosal violated international humanitarian laws on the treatment of pregnant women prisoners of war.

They said in a statement that the Geneva Convention and its protocols take into consideration the conditions of pregnant women and provides for their needs during detention. Pregnant prisoners of war should be able to receive pre and post natal care, they said.

They added that international standards have recognized that the improper treatment of detained pregnant women could increase the risk of miscarriage and permanent injury of the mother and unborn child.

“The chronology of events that led to her daughter’s death all indicate that Andrea Rosal was deliberately deprived of much needed medical care while in detention,” they said.

The party list lawmakers also said Rosal’s custodians could be held to account for depriving her of medical attention, which has been prohibited under the anti-torture law.
