
Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.

Terell Viera, 24, was locked up on Rikers Island facing murder charges in January 2011 when he told his brother Shamar Viera, 26, and pal Roger Freeman, 28, to kill a witness set to testify against him.

Shamar Viera and Freeman lured the witness to the roof of a Brooklyn building the night before Terell Viera’s murder trial and shot him – but the witness lived.

All three men were convicted on attempted murder and conspiracy raps on Feb. 27.

“This was an attempted murder of a witness who testified against his brother. It’s an attack on our judicial system,” Judge Albert Tomei said Monday in Brooklyn Supreme Court.

The 40-year sentence Tomei handed down greatly exceeds even the 25 years to life sentence most often meted out for murder.

None of the three men spoke to express remorse before they were sentenced and none had any family or friends in court to support them.

“The defendant’s actions of trying to silence a witness are despicable,” prosecutor Melissa Carvajal wrote of Terell Viera in court papers.

Although the trial was delayed while the shot witness recuperated for a month,Terell Viera, was convicted in 2011 of manslaughter for shooting dead Elsmaker Iverson, 26, after an argument in Coney Island on Nov. 2, 2008.

Despite the near-deadly intimidation, the witness — whose name is being witheld by The Post — took the stand in Terell’s murder trial and then faced all three men in the 2014 attempted murder and witness intimidation trial.

The Yankees are leading the Angels 6-5 in the ninth, but Mariano Rivera blows the save. Leave it to Jeter, who hits a walk-off single in the ninth inning for a 7-6 Yankees win.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Welcome back!

{* #socialRegistrationForm *}             {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *}             {* socialRegistration_displayName *}             {* socialRegistration_ageVerification *}             By clicking "Create Account", you confirm that you accept our terms of service and have read and understand privacy policy .

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

Create a new password Sent!

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
