
WASHINGTON -- Progressives championed last year's push for filibuster reform, which culminated in Democrats changing Senate rules to require only a simple majority of votes to advance most of President Barack Obama's nominees. Opponents warned that the shoe would eventually be on the other foot, and Democrats would find themselves in the minority with no ability to filibuster nominees they found noxious.

Liberal groups may face that predicament as they fight to bring down Michael Boggs, a controversial judicial pick backed by the White House.

More than two dozen left-leaning groups are lobbying senators to oppose Boggs, a Georgia district court nominee, given his socially conservative record on gay rights, civil rights and abortion. So far, their efforts have paid off: Democrats in the Senate Judiciary Committee pummeled Boggs during his confirmation hearing this week, and top Democratic leaders have all signaled opposition to him.

The problem is, if Boggs makes it out of committee, the votes may not be there to block his confirmation on the Senate floor. That's because of the Senate rules changes liberal groups fought for last year to help ease passage of the president's nominees.

It would take 51 votes to advance Boggs in the Senate -- before filibuster reform, 60 votes were necessary -- and there are currently 45 Republican senators. If all of them vote for Boggs' confirmation, which they will likely do given that he has the support of Georgia's Republican senators, they only need six Democrats to side with them.

Moderate Democrats or those up for re-election in Republican-leaning states could fit that bill. Democrats in those categories include Sens. Heidi Heitkamp (N.D.), Mary Landrieu (La.), Mark Begich (Alaska), Joe Manchin (W. Va.), Kay Hagan (N.C.), Mark Pryor (Ark.), Jeanne Shaheen (N.H.) and John Walsh (Mont.).

The Huffington Post reached out to their offices to gauge their positions on Boggs, and heard back from four: Spokespeople for Begich and Walsh said they will vote against Boggs' confirmation, while spokespeople for Manchin and Shaheen said they are still reviewing his nomination.

To be sure, Boggs may never even make it to the Senate floor. His chances look grim in the Senate Judiciary Committee, where not a single Democrat has suggested he or she will support him. There's also the possibility that Boggs will withdraw his nomination himself, given the level of opposition he's up against.

Two Senate Democratic leadership aides said it's still too early to tell where things are headed, though both said there's been no indication that Boggs plans to withdraw. At least, not yet.

"Depending on how it goes with the Senate Judiciary Committee, I wouldn’t rule it out," said one aide.

During former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich's corruption trial, tapes were played as evidence against him. Not only did they incriminate the former governor, but they also showed off his fondness for curse words.   "I mean, I've got this thing and it's f*cking golden," Blagojevich told an aide, Doug Scofield. "And I'm just not giving it up for f*cking nothing. I'm not going to do it."

Vice Presiden Joe Biden dropped the f-bomb live, on camera while congratulating Obama on passing health care reform.   "This is a big f*cking deal," he said.

Former President George W. Bush made an offhand remark about a New York Times reporter  to former Vice President and running mate Dick Cheney in 2000 during his second-term election season.   “There’s Adam Clymer — major league a**hole — from the New York Times,” Bush said.

At one of his infamous town hall meetings, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie slammed a local Democratic lawmaker, calling him "one arrogant S.O.B"  "He's got to be one arrogant S.O.B. ... to tell the people when they've been good enough [you] get your money back," Christie said.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg was giving a speech at a Coney Island hot dog-eating contest when he realized how corny his speech was. "Who wrote this sh*t?" he asked, jokingly.

Obama has been praised for his clean mouth. But that doesn't mean the president hasn't let it slip on occasion. Obama called Kanye West a "jackass" -- twice, once in an off-the-record comment that circulated via Twitter, and later in an interview with The Atlantic. During the 2012 election he also unabashedly called Gov. Mitt Romney a "bullsh*tter."

Former Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum blew up at a reporter while signing autographs at a Wisconsin rally. New York Times reporter Jeff Zeleny clearly pushed Santorum's buttons, provoking the clean-cut republican to curse him out.   "Quit distorting my words,” Santorum said, enraged. “If I see it, it’s bullsh*t! Come on, man! What are you doing?"

Former Vice President Dick Cheney had no problem owning up to a Senate-floor slip up. Cheney was caught telling Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) to "go f*ck yourself."

The Watergate tapes revealed a lot about former President Richard Nixon, including his favorite curse words. Though he was known to swear often in private, the tapes showcased his unrestrained bad language. In one instance he said, "I don't give a sh*t what happens, I want you all to stonewall it." That quote marked the first time the New York Times printed the word "sh*t."

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
