
It is a truism that women from the local to the global level are under-represented in both leadership and political involvements. The same level of inequality occurs almost in all areas of human endeavours, in spite of women’s proven abilities and capacities the world over. To ensure equitable distribution of resources and responsibilities, the world has articled different international commitments to give women a voice.

From the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women to the Beijing Platform for Action, the struggle towards upholding women’s right in public life and removing barriers to equal participation appears to have been won. But the reality on the grounds today, most especially in Africa is that it is not yet uhuru.

It’s against this background that the wife of the Ogun State Governor, Mrs. Olufunso Amosun has articulated new perspectives on how to make women’s voice heard and make their vote count in Nigeria’s political process ahead of the 2015 general election, saying the time has come for women to remind themselves and ask one another how they intend to take their rightful place in the unfolding political equation in the country.

Delivering the keynote address at the Women's Conference with the theme: “The Role of Women in the Unfolding Political Equation” organised by the Capstone Church (Church Without Walls) in Yaba, Lagos to mark the 2014 Mother's Day and the 10th anniversary of the church, the wife of the governor said success is never served A la Carte.

According to her, "As we prepare for the forth-coming election, I implore you to make your voice heard and make your vote count by  participating  actively and encouraging others to take part in the political process. It is the only way to be relevant in the scheme of things. I would like us all to believe in ourselves and work hard to meet the requirements of whatever position we vie for.  The role of women in the unfolding political equation can only be felt if we make ourselves relevant and contribute our quota to the success of the election."

She added that equal participation of women in politics should be adhered to in compliance with the covenants contained in the various international treaties to ensure the female representation continues to grow, explaining that women should be part of the decision-making processes.

“There have been some efforts by the government to increase women’s representation in politics and appreciable progress are being recorded but it is imperative that equal participation of women in politics is further effected in the Nigerian political system in compliance with the covenants contained in the various International treaties to ensure the female representation continues to grow, not only in bench-warming role, we want to be part of the decision-making processes, we want to be in the fore-front along with our men, that is when we will know that we are truly part of the political equation that becomes binding on all the Nigerian citizens, we don't want the fate of women decided by men,” she admonished.

She said women possess different innate qualities which have distinguished them in the society. “Women multitask by nature, we play multiple roles within the family, community and the society, we are role models, leaders, teachers, homemakers and care givers all in one, we are an unstoppable force to be reckoned with and we are the stabilising factor and bedrock of any society,” she stated.

But despite these enviable characteristics, she explained that women still encounter immense discrimination almost everywhere. “Women are marginalised in all sectors of life, be it in the work place, community, financial institutions, industries or public sectors, not to mention the all revered political terrain, which is almost treated like a fraternity for the male species alone!

Tracing the historical factor that might be responsible for this age-long inequality, the First Lady argued that the misconceptions of the past stemmed from our great fore-fathers such as sending the male child to school, whilst the female child stayed at home amongst others.

Mrs. Amosun said the adoption of democratic rule in 1999 provided an opportunity for women’s political participation just as the Beijing Platform for action recommended 30% representation of women in political position. She explained that despite this, women’s participation in politics has only slightly improved compared to that of their male counterparts.

“According to statistics, from 2003 democratic rule, only 13.4% of the cabinet members were women, there were and to date, still are no female governors, only 1.6% of women were councillors, 1.2% were local government chairpersons, 2.8% were senators and 3.3 were at the House of Representatives,” she said.

To her, “We have to start inviting the men to women's conferences, we need to state our cases to them, we need to let them know our disposition, stand and expectations, there is no point telling one another over and over again. To motivate change, the men in the corridors of power must be invited, it is a black and white case, clear for all to see and comprehend.

She claimed to have been empowering different classes of women in Ogun State to complement the good work of her husband through her Uplift Development Foundation to boost their economic capacity and ensure that they are self-sufficient. She also commended her husband, Governor Ibikunle Amosun for putting the welfare of women on the fore-burner.

"I stand tall and proud to say that my husband in addition to his unrelentless efforts to give back dividends of democracy to the citizens has met and surpassed the 30% recommendation in Ogun State, he is gender-friendly almost to the advantage of our women folk.

“This has been demonstrated through the fact that Our Chief  Judge, Head of Service, Attorney General, Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Planning, Agriculture, Women Affairs, Culture and Tourism along with Special Advisers on Housing, Trade and Investment, Millennium Development Goals to mention a few, are all women."

"You will agree with me that these are not the usual back seat female positions; these are the creme-de-la-creme positions that are usually reserved for the male kingdom.  If this were to be replicated in all states in Nigeria, the multiplier effect would bring about a gender sensitive nation," she said.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.
