
Home > Voter support swings towards keeping carbon and resource taxes.

In the wake of the budget release, voter backlash against the Liberal government policies has turned more voters around to support keeping the carbon and mining taxes.

The Fairfax/Nielsen post-budget poll has found that 46 per cent of voters now oppose the abolition of the carbon tax, while 49 per cent are for the government-backed repeal.

More remarkably, the Minerals Resources Rent Tax (MRRT) now holds 56 per cent of voter support, while only 36 per cent supports its repeal.

The poll was taken from a sample of 1400 voters over three days last week.

The Financial Review has said these figures will “further embolden” the Labour opposition to block the repeal of both taxes in the Senate.

The MRRT and carbon taxes have already been blocked once before this year, and their failure to pass through the senate once more will represent a massive blow to the pre-election promises made by the Abbott Government.

Maverick party leader and mining magnate Clive Palmer was expected to support the repeal of these taxes, however he has persistently vowed to oppose the Liberal Party on their policies until they back down on reductions to welfare funding, including a fund worth less than $300,000 for the children of deceased soldiers.

Palmer is likely to join the ranks of Labour and the Greens in the Senate to block supply, having called the new budget "a heartless and cruel budget that will cause many Australians undue pain, all based on a fairy tale they have concocted that Australia is in some kind of debt crisis."

Palmer has also indicated his lack of faith in the veracity of statements made by the Prime Minister and the Liberal Government.

"It's just more bullshit being fed to the Australian public for the Abbott government's consumption," he said.

The supply bill must be passed through both houses of parliament by June 30 in order to legislate the use of government funds for the next financial year.

Ferret.com.au is an online business directory servicing the Australian Manufacturing, Industrial and Mining industries. Owned and operated by Catch, an online division of Cirrus Media, Ferret.com.au provides a comprehensive central online source containing the latest product, supplier and industry news updates attracting more than 130,000 unique visitors each month.   Ferret.com.au is the official directory of Australian Mining and Manufacturers' Monthly.
