
Police are investigating a double homicide after the bodies of two women were found in Auckland.

A woman who was stabbed to death along with her daughter in her West Auckland home, was a ‘‘lovely person,’’ highly active in the Pakistani community, her friends say.

Farhat Malik and her daughter were killed in her home on Pooks Rd, Ranui, yesterday. They were both suffering from stab wounds.

Police were not looking for anyone else, Detective Inspector Greg Cramer said.

Malik’s friends were shocked when they heard of her death.

‘‘I am so distraught. She was a close friend of ours. We had a meal together last week,’’ said Reverend Amail Habib, the locum chaplain at Waitakere Hospital.

Malik had two daughters and a son, according to Habib.

 They had met through the Pakistani community.

‘‘She was a good person. She had a Masters of Philosophy. She was very active in the social circles of the Pakistani community,’’ he said.

When Malik first moved to New Zealand from Karachi, she found support and friendship at the community organisation the Ranui Action Project (RAP), after initially finding it difficult in her new home.

Her friends from the project had admired her work in the community.

‘‘She was such a lovely person. She was a lovely woman. She ran urdu classes for the young people because she they were going to lose their culture if they didn’t keep up with the languages. She was very proud of her culture and wanting to stay very much linked,’’ said Verle Cahill, administrator at RAP.

A postmortem is due to take place this morning.

The scene was being forensically examined last night and the bodies were removed, said Cramer.

Neighbours were shocked by deaths.

Peter Kake has lived on Ranui Ave, close to the house where the bodies were found, for 11 years.

After arriving home and finding Pooks Rd cordoned off police told him they were investigating a double murder of a mother and daughter.

Rob Nixon has lived next door to the family for three years and said they were a ‘‘pleasant’’ family. Two sons visited occasionally but didn’t live there.

Occasionally they’d say hello and Nixon believed the husband was a bus driver.

Nixon said he had never heard any arguments or noise coming from the house.
