
A state Division of Highways crew repairs potholes on MacCorkle Avenue in Charleston last month.

CHARLESTON, W.Va. — All road construction projects around the state could come to a halt in August if Congress allows the federal Highway Trust Fund to run out of money, state Transportation Secretary Paul Mattox told legislators Monday.

At issue is whether Congress will pass a transportation funding bill before the Highway Trust Fund, which provides federal matching funds to the states, is exhausted.

President Obama has proposed a four-year, $302 billion transportation bill, which has met with Republican opposition. Mattox said that bill would increase federal highways funding to the state by about 20 percent a year.

He said the U.S. Senate has passed a six-year, $265 billion plan that would keep federal funding to the state at the current level of $324 million a year.

Mattox told legislators he anticipates that Congress will resolve the impasse either before or shortly after the Highway Trust Fund is exhausted.

Also Monday, Mattox said the state Road Fund revenues are running $31.5 million ahead of estimates, which has been invaluable in repairing state roads damaged by the severe winter.

“We are able to use that and be more aggressive in our pothole program,” he said.

That’s after the state Division of Highways went $13.5 million overbudget for snow and ice removal during the winter, he said.

Mattox said gas tax collections are running $14.4 million above estimates, while the privilege tax — the 5 percent sales tax on vehicle sales — is running $14.3 million ahead of projections.

Also Monday, Mattox said oil and gas drilling companies have voluntarily contributed about $11 million a year over the past three years to upgrade roads in the Northern Panhandle and north-central West Virginia damaged by heavy drilling equipment.

A dedicated tax on coal of 5 cents per ton also provides about $4.5 million a year for upgrading designated coal access roads in 17 coalfield counties, used by overweight coal trucks, he said.

Sign up for the latest news delivered to your inbox each morning.

Thank you!
