
JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar on Monday handpicked senior Bihar minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whom he had asked to quit the state Cabinet in November 2005 for his alleged involvement in irregular recognition of teachers' training institutes and non-existent colleges, as the Chief Minister of the state.

While playing the Mahadalit card in bolstering the JD(U)'s chances in the Bihar Assembly elections, Nitish overlooked the controversial past of Manjhi, 68, whose name figured in a fake B.Ed degree racket in the 1990s.

Manjhi was re-inducted in 2008 after being absolved of the charges.

He will take the oath of office and secrecy on Tuesday.

A JD(U) delegation consisting of Manjhi and senior leaders Nitish, Sharad Yadav and Vashishtha Narain Singh handed over the letters of support by 120 legislators, including two Independents, to the Governor.

After coming out of the Raj Bhavan, Nitish said the JD(U) had the requisite majority in the Bihar Assembly. He said Manjhi had been chosen because of his experience and contribution to the party.

"I am sure he will be able to run the government successfully," Nitish said.

Manjhi said his priority would be to carry forward the work of Nitish Kumar.

"It is a challenge to continue the kind of work Nitishji has done. But he will always be there to guide the government," he said.

Nitish has apparently chosen Manjhi, a Mahadalit leader, as his successor to consolidate his Mahadalit vote bank.

The Mahadalits account for about 15 per cent of the electorate in the state. During his eight-and-a-half year reign, Nitish had launched various welfare schemes for the most marginalised sections of the society.

Besides, he had picked up Manjhi ahead of other high-profile claimants to minimise the scope of protests within his party.

But the selection of 68-year-old Manjhi, who was the SC/ST welfare minister in the Nitish Cabinet, raised questions as to whether he would have a free hand to take decisions on his own or end up as a dummy Chief Minister.

The question arose after the JD(U) legislature party passed a resolution earlier in the day authorising Nitish to function as the "coordinator" between the party and the state government apart from being the mentor of the organisation.

It also resolved to fight the next assembly elections and form the government with absolute majority under his leadership.

"Kaman unhin ke haath mein rahegi, bhale hi woh CM na ho (Nitish will continue to hold the reins even if he is not the CM)," JD(U)'s Bihar unit president Vashishtha Narayan Singh said, without mincing his words.

Nitish said he would work towards strengthening the new government.

"My colleagues are capable (of running the government). It is, after all, the collective responsible of the council of ministers," he said.

Reactions: LJP president Ram Vilas Paswan (right) claimed that the JD(U) government would soon collapse, while BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi (left) accused Nitish of wanting to control a 'dummy CM'.

The JD(U) leader said he would go back to the people in the next elections.

"And if I get the fresh mandate, I will definitely serve the people of the state," Nitish added.

The BJP, however, hit out at Nitish accusing him of emerging as a "remote control CM".

Sushil Kumar Modi alleged Nitish would try to control the government from behind the scenes.

"The JD(U) is installing a dummy CM who will be controlled by Nitish. The new incumbent will be a dummy - someone like Manmohan Singh," he said.

Sushil said Nitish had probably taken inspiration from the Congress and the RJD.

"But the remote-controlled governments have never succeeded. Lalu Prasad tried to run the Rabri Devi government through remote but could not succeed."

By the time Nitish Kumar sought a day's time to reconsider the demand of the vociferous JD(U) legislators, who were clamouring for the rollback of his decision to step down on Sunday, it was clear that he was in no mood to take up the job he had voluntarily relinquished after the party's debacle in the Lok Sabha elections.

This became clearer when the party's national president Sharad Yadav revealed on Monday morning that Nitish had taken the tough but right decision to quit, and a new leader would be elected by the legislature party during the day.

But the veteran leader Ramai Ram pressed for fresh elections. Nitish was apparently wary of facing his legislators who had gone to the extent of threatening to sit on a fast-unto-death to prevail upon him to remain the Chief Minister.

It was left a to few former ministers such as Narendra Singh, Shyam Rajak and Nitish Mishra to convince the legislators that they should respect the decision of their leader.

As the JD(U) MLAs assembled for the legislature party leader at the chief ministerial bungalow in the afternoon, they were reconciled to the fact that they will have to let go of Nitish and elect his successor.

The legislature party subsequently authorised Nitish to pick the next Chief Minister but passed a resolution at the same time to empower him as the mentor and co-ordinator between the party and the next government.

The resolution also emphasised that Nitish would lead the party in the next Assembly polls.

Meanwhile, speculation was rife about the name of his successor. Two Yadav leaders-Narendra Narayan Yadav and Bijendra Prasad Yadav-were considered front-runners.

Nitish came out of his bungalow after the JDULP meeting to apprise his supporters camping outside about the reasons behind his decision.

He reassured them that he would lead from the front in the next elections and asked them to be ready for a long battle ahead.

"We will have to face many obstacles during our fight but we will succeed by showing determination," he said.

It was only after reaching Raj Bhawan that he introduced Jitan Ram Manjhi as the next CM, much to everybody's surprise.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
