
The Congress, with just two winning MPs in Maharashtra, is being dismissed as the party that would need nothing more than a motorcycle.

THE performance of political parties in this year’s Lok Sabha elections is being equated with vehicles that would be required to ferry their MPs. The NCP that secured four seats is being dismissed as a (Tata) Nano that can carry only four persons. “In 2009, NCP was a party which could be packaged in an Innova (they had won eight seats).

In 2014, they have moved to a Nano,” state BJP president Devendra Fadanvis said in a lighter vein. However, the NCP, not used to swallowing insults, said, “The BJP, with 23 seats, certainly cannot afford anything less than a Volvo bus. But we only hope they master the art of controlling the steering. Or else, the bus will topple under its own weight.” The Shiv Sena (18 seats) is being spoken of as a party which would require a super luxury bus. And the Congress, with just two winning MPs in Maharashtra, is being dismissed as the party that would need nothing more than a motorcycle.

Winner of Mumbai North-East Lok Sabha seat, BJP’s Dr Kirit Somaiya, recently conceded that it was the NaMo ‘tsunami,’ which had worked its magic all over the country. The newly-elected MP was also touched by a superstition that his son Neil and his best friend “sported” for a month to bring good luck to him.

“Neil and his friend believed if they do not shave their beard till the declaration of election results, it will bring me good fortune,” said Dr Somaiya. Neil said the belief signified “love and confidence” in his father’s fate. “It was only after the news of his victory that I decided to shave. I did not want to look chikna,” quipped Neil, who is the general secretary of the BJP Yuva Morcha in Mumbai. The junior Somaiya can now celebrate his father’s victory by putting a razor to good use.

EVEN as the Shiv Sena was edging closer to victory in the Mumbai South constituency, sources close to the Sena candidate Arvind Sawant were not sure whether to start distributing sweets or stay put until the final results were out. “Let’s wait till the last few counting rounds are over, just to be sure,” a Sena volunteer was seen telling another volunteer.
