
After the Lok Sabha polls, major political parties are bracing themselves for yet another battle as the biennial elections to the Legislative Council from four constituencies are set to be held soon.

The Election Commission is likely to announce the election dates any time now. Elections will be held in the Karnataka Northeast Teachers constituency, Karnataka West Graduates constituency, Karnataka Southeast Graduates constituency and Bangalore Teachers constituency.

While the Northeast Teachers constituency, West Graduates constituency and Southeast Graduates constituency were held by BJP members, the Bangalore Teachers’ constituency is held by the Janata Dal (Secular).

Shashil G. Namoshi, who won from Northeast Teachers constituency, and Mohan Limbikai, who won from the West Graduates constituency, resigned before their term ended.

While Mr. Namoshi resigned in 2009 to try his luck in the byelection to the Legislative Assembly from the Gulbarga South constituency, Mr. Limbika resigned in 2013 to join the Karnataka Janata Paksha, led by the former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa. Now both Mr. Namoshi and Mr. Limbikai are back in the BJP fold.

A.H. Shivayogi Swamy represents the Karnataka Southeast Graduates Constituency and Puttanna of the JD(S) represents the Bangalore Teachers constituency.

The Northeast Teachers constituency consists of Gulbarga, Bidar, Raichur, Koppal, Bellary, Yadgir, and Bellary districts and Harpanahalli taluk in Davangere district. The trend in the constituency has been to elect non-Congress candidates right from the first elections in 1978. The first to be elected from the constituency was the Janata Party candidate A.B. Maalakaraddy. Incidentally, Dr. Maalakaraddy was the only teacher to be elected from the constituency. In all the next elections, the constituency elected non-teachers.

In the 1984 elections, the former Minister Vaijnath Patil was elected and for the first time, the BJP opened its account with the victory of Basavaraj Patil Sedam in 1990. In the next three elections — in 1996, 2002, and 2008, Mr. Namoshi retained the seat for the BJP.

While the BJP has announced the candidature of Mr. Namoshi from the constituency, the Congress is yet to announce its nominee. For the first time, there has been a strong feeling among teachers that a teacher should be elected to espouse their cause in the Legislative Council.

Prominent persons who are trying to get Congress ticket to contest from the constituency include advocate Sharanappa Mattur, Lingaraj Biradar, Maheshwaraswamy and Thimmaiah Purli.

M.B. Ambalagi, president of the North-east Teachers’ Forum, is likely to get the nomination from the JD(S).
