
The Modi tsunami has decimated the Congress, as the headline of our New Delhi Special Correspondent s report on the outcome of the India n general election read on Saturday. Narendra Modi s BJP has secured an outright majority by winning 282 seats as the main constituent of an alliance which obtained a staggering 336 seats in the 543-member Lok Sabha.

The Modi victory is reminiscent of the JRJ tsunami here in 1977 to some extent. It was not a case of the Old Fox winning. Instead, it was a case of Sirimavo s government having dug its own political grave. Writing appeared on the wall for the Congress-led government years ago, but its leaders tried to wish away the fact that it was riding for a fall. They have been left with only 44 seats.

When euphoria dies down and the sobering political reality dawns, PM Modi will be faced with numerous problems to tackle. People who have just voted out the Congress government expect miracles. India has pinned its hopes on what has come to be dubbed Modinomics. Modi will have to deliver the goods from the word go.

An argument is peddled in some quarters that the Indians have voted against corruption. If so, their choice would have been Arvind Kejriwal s Aam Aadmi Party which campaigned entirely on an anti-corruption platform. Corruption and Congress, no doubt, became sort of collocations those two words have appeared together throughout the last so many years. The Congress-led government was rocked by mega corrupt deals such as the 2G Spectrum Scam. The Indians expect the BJP and Modi to do much more than combating corruption.

The new government to be sworn in will have to accelerate the economic growth as never before, create many more jobs, improve health care and education, alleviate poverty and, above all, tackle ethno-religious issues. Modi s nationalism has helped him trounce the Congress in style, but it, unless handled properly, might even be his undoing.

While Modi tsunami swept across India, an Amma Wave was witnessed in Tamil Nadu, where Chief Minister J. Jayalalitha s AIADMK bagged 37 of the 39 Lok Sabha seats. Karunanidhi s DMK was left with nothing and the BJP managed to win only the Kannyakumari Lok Sabha seat  the PMK won Dharmapuri. In a way, her performance has been more impressive than Modi s. She has won against the DMK, the Congress and the BJP in her state. Most of all, she has effectively curbed the Modi tsunami in Tamil Nadu no mean achievement.

Some political observers argue that the mammoth BJP victory has rendered Jayalalitha s party irrelevant at the centre  she has lost her bargaining power and political leverage because now there is a rock-solid central government after decades of political instability and Modi is too strong to be dictated to. But, in reality, both leaders cannot wish each other away. They will have to cooperate. As for Jayalalitha s Sri Lanka project, all signs are that she won t be able to pressure the BJP to toe her line and she won t be able to secure the Centre s backing to advance her current anti-Sri Lanka agenda unless it dovetails with the BJP s.

It is not likely that India s Sri Lanka policy will undergo a radical change under a BJP-led government, at least in the short run. Modi has a global diplomatic crisis to contend with. The BJP government will have to find its bearings as regards the Ukraine conflict over which the world is divided. Even the global super powers that did not want to touch Modi with a barge pole because of his Hindu nationalism and alleged involvement in anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat which he will find it difficult to live down, are falling over themselves to roll out the red carpet for him. They have subjugated their human rights concerns to a compelling need to have the world s second most populous nation and third largest economy on their side. Likewise, PM Modi will need bear hugs at the White House and Downing Street more than anything else to repair his image internationally. He will have to walk a difficult diplomatic tightrope.

What we have just witnessed in India is the conclusion of one of the most effective marketing campaigns in the world. The team Modi was faced with the gargantuan task of not only shoring up the BJP s image but also rebranding Modi as a messiah and alternative to PM Singh, the veteran economist, Kejriwal, the knight errant in shining armour and Rahul, the young, energetic Gandhi scion. It succeeded in its endeavour beyond its expectations. The biggest challenge before the new strong-willed, resourceful, pragmatic, indefatigable Indian PM will be to live up to his propagandistically created image.
