
Share This Story!

He tells voters his work in D.C. kept him in touch with Iowans.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Iowa Republican David Young in race for U.S. House: full editorial board interview with the Register.

David Young, right, presents his uncle, Doyle Hutzell, with a John Wayne toothpick holder before campaigning on Adel’s downtown square on May 8.

ADEL, Ia.  – When congressional candidate David Young set out to introduce himself to voters here in the Dallas County seat, he relied on his Uncle Doyle to open the doors for him.

Doyle Hutzel, Young's maternal uncle and a lifelong resident of the county, first circulated the candidate's nominating petitions. Then, a couple Thursdays back, he took Young around the town's sleepy downtown square, literally opening doors to introduce him to the shopkeepers and professionals and vouch for his central-Iowa bona fides.

Such personal connections may be critical for Young, who's running to represent Iowa's 3rd Congressional District after spending the last two decades as a political staffer in Washington, D.C.

In storefront after storefront, Hutzel offered a quick introduction before Young made his pitch, highlighting his family's roots in the area — he grew up in Van Meter, graduated from high school in Johnston, went to college at Drake — pressing his fiscal-first conservatism and always mentioning his close connection with Iowa U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley.

Young worked as Grassley's chief of staff for more than seven years — an experience, he told Adel voters, that put him in touch with Iowans on a daily basis, and which would allow him to get to work immediately if elected.

"I'm not going to have to go to congressional research training courses to understand what the heck is going on and how to get done what I want to get done," Young said. "I have that head start so I can hit the ground running."

Grassley, in an interview, praised Young's work ethic, and agreed his experience on Capitol Hill would serve him well if elected. The senator also echoed Young's claim that he's remained in touch with Iowa and aware of Iowans' concerns despite all those years away.

"He knows the legislative session," Grassley said. "But the most important thing is I found that he never forgot Iowa just because he was working in Washington, D.C."

Stuart Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report newsletter, said staffers attempting the leap to elective office may benefit from their understanding of the process and enjoy advantages in fundraising and access.

But there also are big disadvantages, especially given the antipathy many voters have for Congress today.

"In this environment, with Congress held in low esteem, being a staffer to a member of Congress can be a liability: You pick up all the negatives of Congress without having any of the assets," Rothenberg said.

"You don't have the natural benefit of incumbency, but you're stuck with the label of Washington, Capitol Hill and Congress."

Young's "mainstreeting" foray with Uncle Doyle that afternoon in Adel has been a staple of his campaign.

Although he's also running TV ads, Young emphasized the grass-roots nature of his candidacy, reeling off the town squares he's walked and neighborhoods he's door-knocked in an effort to introduce himself personally to the voters of the 3rd District.

At the Lincoln Savings Bank branch in Adel, he reminisced on playing Little League with Tim Canney, a former catcher at the University of Iowa who's now a vice president at the bank.

At the Dodge dealership across the courthouse square, a sales manager entertained Young's pitch — and then shifted gears to ask Uncle Doyle whether he had a litter of farm kittens ready for adoption.

At each stop, Young left glossy campaign handouts and business cards.

In an interview later, Young emphasized his fiscal conservatism, pledging if elected to support a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget, expiration dates for new legislation and an audit of the entire federal government.

"I want to be a conservative watchdog and make sure we get our fiscal house in order not for the sake of the Republican Party to reclaim the issue but for the sake of this country," he said.

Young is one of six Republican candidates in what he called a "goat rodeo" of a primary race for the 3rd District. The seat represents 16 counties in the southwestern corner of the state and includes the Des Moines metro area and Council Bluffs.

It's open this year due to the retirement of 10-term GOP incumbent Tom Latham, and is expected to be hotly contested in the November general election.

TOP THREE ISSUES: Reduce the deficit and debt; grow the economy; increase government accountability.

COMPARE: See fuller information on Young's background and top issues at data.desmoinesregister.com/ compare-candidates/. Compare his stands on 25 issues with those of his opponents and your own views.

This is the first of six profiles of Republican candidates vying in Iowa's 3rd Congressional District primary June 3.

Aug. 25, 2014, 11:47 p.m.
