
MANILA, Philippines - The Senate Blue Ribbon committee has postponed its hearing on the Malampaya Fund scam due to the unavailability of Commission on Audit Chairman Maria Gracia Pulido Tan as its main resource person.

In an advisory sent to the Senate media yesterday, Blue Ribbon committee chairman Sen. Teofisto Guingona III said the hearing, which was supposed to be held this Thursday, would be held on a later date.

Prior to the announcement of Guingona, there was talk that the hearing would not push through on Thursday because it would coincide with the World Economic Forum on East Asia meetings,of which the Philippines is hosting.

Senate Majority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano said he was very disappointed with the decision because even without the presence of Tan, the committee could have continued its hearing by inviting other resource persons, including suspected pork barrel scam operator Janet Lim-Napoles.

Cayetano said the hearing would be an opportunity to take on Napoles.

He said the pork barrel scam, the Malampaya Fund scam and the fertilizer fund scam were “intimately related” because all involved Napoles and her activities.

Cayetano said he would be filing a resolution calling for the reopening of the Senate’s hearings on the fertilizer fund scam.

Cayetano said his call was prompted by the statement of principal pork barrel scam whistle-blower Benhur Luy that he is willing to testify regarding the fertilizer fund scam, the involvement of Napoles and the dismissal of the charges against former President and now Pampanga Rep. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.

The Malampaya Fund scam involved at least P900 million of the royalties paid to the government for the natural gas exploration activities in Palawan, which were supposed to go to the communities hit by Typhoons Ondoy and Pepeng but which went to the NGOs of Napoles.

In the case of the fertilizer fund scam, at least P728 million worth of funds that were supposed to help rice farmers increase their productivity were misused and allegedly went to support the campaign of Arroyo during the 2004 presidential elections.

Luy was reported as saying that he is willing to spill the beans on Napoles’ involvement in the fertilizer fund scam.

Napoles herself, in her affidavit, admitted she started out supplying fertilizer to the government.

In fact, Napoles’ name had come up during the Senate committee on agriculture’s probe into the fertilizer fund scam in 2005 but she was not able to appear before the hearings.

Cayetano said the Blue Ribbon committee should immediately conduct a hearing on any one of those three issues so that Napoles could be summoned to testify.

He said the hearings could be held on any day and the country’s hosting of the WEF should not have any effect on this.

“We do know that there are a thousand and one resource persons and Thursday is not the only day we can have a hearing,” Cayetano said.

“We can have a hearing on Friday. We can have a hearing on Wednesday. We can have a hearing on Monday. So what would be more embarrassing, that we hold a hearing while the World Economic Forum is going on or we face the world leaders with a cloud of doubt on the heads of our politicians, the media and even the judiciary,” he added.
