
The Judicial Watch revelations come in the wake of a May 7 Washington Times report that “the tax agency audited 10 percent of those donors, much higher than the audit rate for average Americans.

The political Left has fumed over Tea Party applications for 501(c)4 non-profit status in the wake of the 2010 Citizens United Supreme Court decision, as it allows the organizations thus designated to conduct some overtly political activity as long as they are primarily engaged in operations to promote the “social welfare.” Democrats in particular have asserted that 501(c)4 designations for Tea Party groups were simply ways for Republican donors to hide their political contributions from the Federal Election Commission. Indeed, Senator Levin seems to believe that there is no “social welfare” purpose in organizations informing citizens of their congressman's voting record. “These groups are exploiting our tax code by organizing as tax-exempt 'social welfare' groups and then spending tens of millions of undisclosed dollars on political campaigns,” Levin posited in a September 19, 2012 speech on the floor of the Senate, a speech that IRS officials circulated amongst themselves over staff e-mail.

The screening group manager asked his employees how they were applying the BOLO's short-hand reference to "tea party." His employees responded that they were including organizations meeting any of the following criteria as falling within the BOLO's reference to "tea party" organizations: "1. 'Tea Party', 'Patriots' or '9/12 Project' is referenced in the case file. 2. Issues include government spending, government debt and taxes. 3. Educate the public through advocacy/legislative activities to make America a better place to live. 4. Statements in the case file that are critical of how the country is being run.

It is all about political activity: suppressing Tea Party criticism of congressional incumbents. And Lois Lerner and the IRS were engaging in full cooperation with their White House bosses in that effort.
