
Jammu: BJP unit of Jammu and Kashmir today said the party's victory in the Lok Sabha election in the state is a mandate for national integration and against those demanding autonomy and indulging in divisive politics.

"The 2014 mandate is a mandate against those who were demanding autonomy and playing divisive politics in Jammu and Kashmir," BJP state president Jugal Kishore Sharma said.

Sharma, who defeated his nearest Congress rival by a huge margin of more than 2.6 lakh from Jammu-Poonch Parliamentary Constituency, thanked the people of the state for voting in favour of BJP and Prime Minister-designate Narendra Modi.

"The vote for BJP in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh was a vote for the would be Prime Minister Narendra Modi...For national integration.

"We sincerely thank the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh for the manner in which they defeated pro-autonomy NC and divisive and communal Congress party and returned to the Lok Sabha three BJP members from Jammu province and Ladakh region," Sharma said.

In a major setback to the ruling National Conference Congress coalition in Jammu and Kashmir, opposition PDP and BJP shared the six Lok Sabha seats in the state as two Union ministers, including Farooq Abdullah, bit the dust in the recently concluded general elections.

On BJP's promise in its election manifesto to revoke Article 370 which grants special status to Jammu and Kashmir, Sharma said, "Article 370 has to go lock, stock and barrel. This special provision is the mother of all ills facing the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh."

"This historic verdict would go a long way in changing the political history of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh and unleash a process that would not only hasten the state's political, constitutional and economic integration but would also culminate in an environment that would satisfy the social, cultural, economic and political aspirations of all the people inhabiting different regions of the state," he said.

Sharma said BJP will work towards ensuring Union Territory (UT) status to Ladakh, political empowerment of Jammu province and that the genuine interests of the people of Kashmir Valley are met.

He further said the party will fulfil its commitments made to PoK refugees who have been denied citizenship rights in the state.

"The redressal of their grievances is top priority for the BJP. The party will leave no stone unturned to meet the expectations of all social groups and communities," he said.

"At the same time, BJP will see to it that those demanding autonomy, self-rule and separation are comprehensively defeated.

"...It is because people were fully aware of the negative impact of the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre and NC-Congress coalition government in the state that they routed both the NC and the Congress," he said.
