
You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.

Clint Roberts, executive director of the Minnesota Craft Brewers Guild, recently drove by the Surly brewery plant being built in the Prospect Park neighborhood of Minneapolis and noted the bright blue trucks from Cemstone, which is doing the cement work.

The drivers of those trucks are members of the Teamsters union, which single-handedly (with the help of key DFLers) shot down a bill that would have allowed breweries such as Surly to continue to grow by selling jugs, or “growlers,” of beer on Sunday.

Talk about biting the hand that feeds you.

In fact, the Teamsters were so proud of their work they sent out a picture of the trucks on Twitter. Yet after the bill allowing Sunday sales seemed to be on a fast track to approval, the Teamsters suddenly went behind the scenes and shot it down as the legislative session was winding down.

I’ve tried to get ahold of Teamster political director Ed Reynoso to find out why, exactly, the union suddenly turned against the proposed Sunday sales.

Initially, Reynoso asked me to send him my questions. “I would be happy to answer them,” he wrote.

Blah, blah and blah.

State Sen. Roger Reinert, DFL-Duluth, a sponsor of the bill that would have allowed Sunday sales in breweries only, said he tried to incorporate language that would protect union contracts, but the union stopped talking to him. Reinert said the issue is wildly popular both among the public and in the Legislature, but because of Teamsters opposition, it failed.

Reynoso is also a member of the Metropolitan Council, appointed by Gov. Dayton around the time the so-called Surly bill passed the Legislature and began to provide work for his members.

Well, there is a winery in the area Reynoso represents, Goose Lake Farm and Winery. The winery is allowed to sell wine by the bottle on Sundays. But if someone opened a brewery in the area, it would not be allowed to sell beer to go. I asked Reynoso if that was fair, but he didn’t respond.

Roberts can’t help but see the irony in the fact Teamsters turned on them.

The only explanation the Teamsters have given about their opposition to growler sales is that a company that distributes alcohol and employs Teamsters said the law would allow them to reopen their labor contracts.

You are now subscribed.
