
OPPOSITION Alliance spokesperson Frank Bwalya says the opposition does not want the Patriotic Front (PF) government to fail because if it does, it is Zambians who would suffer.

“We want it to rule until Jesus comes if it is going to improve people’s welfare,” Father Bwalya said in an interview yesterday.

The Catholic priest, who is also leader of the Alliance for a Better Zambia (ABZ), said the Opposition Alliance - comprising ABZ, the MMD, People’s Party, Zambians for Empowerment and Development (ZED) and All People’s Congress (APC) - wants to see people’s lives improve.

“It is not going to State House we are interested in. It is the welfare of Zambians. What we want is to see people’s livelihoods improve because we have their interests at heart.

“If PF wins and it will improve people’s lives, then we will be very happy,” Father Bwalya said.

Meanwhile, Father Bwalya has appealed to Munali PF member of Parliament Nkandu Luo, who is also Minister of Chiefs and Traditional Affairs, to facilitate dialogue between the opposition and Government so that both parties can counsel each other on how best to run the country.

“Professor Luo is a distinguished lady whom I respect so much. Let her take the initiative and call for dialogue between the opposition and Government. We need to counsel each other,” he said.

Fr Bwalya said this following Prof Luo’s remarks that inflammatory remarks by the opposition give a wrong impression that Zambia is “on fire”.

“Government is in order to counsel the opposition if they think that we are alarming the nation through certain statements.

“But we are not entirely to blame because there is no legal framework to access information, so we end up speculating,” he said.

The opposition sometimes issue statements that are inaccurate and unfounded.

“When the Opposition Alliance states things the way it does, it is because many people are suffering.

“There is no value or benefit in alarming people. It just diminishes one’s credibility,” Fr Bwalya said.

And the PF says people are not interested in MMD president Nevers Mumba’s allegations that the ruling party is interfering in his party’s internal matters.

Addressing his supporters outside the Lusaka High Court recently, Dr Mumba said he would continue to blame MMD’s internal problems on the PF.

PF media and communication director Chanda Mfula says people have ignored Dr Mumba’s claims that PF is fuelling confusion in MMD and as a result, he keeps repeating himself.

Mr Mfula said in an interview in Lusaka yesterday that Dr Mumba has continued to repeat himself in a bid to attract sympathy and attention.

“People are not paying attention to cheap talk by Nevers Mumba. They are busy with much more important things than cheap politics,” he said.

The ruling party has important things to do in Zambia to foster national development and it would not be derailed by cheap opposition politics.

Basic HTML code is allowed.
