
A man accused of raping a Bridgend schoolgirl while his ‘black magic’ wife held her down told a jury he would not have needed any help to assault a child.

Former “fit” fireman and RAF mechanic Albert Hickman said the allegation, dating back 40 years, when there were allegedly books on witchcraft as well as pornography at his home, was not true.

Hickman, now 64, admitted being jailed for 10 years in the 1980s for the rape of a 13-year-old girl in Shropshire but said while he was stationed at RAF St Athan and attending Salvation Army meetings with his wife several years before he did no such thing.

The alleged victim, now 52, has told the jury she would ‘mitch off’ school and go to the Hickmans’ house after being befriended by his wife Carolee, who herself has admitted holding down another girl for a man to have sex with her during a black magic ritual.

The woman has accused Mrs Hickman of kissing and touching her over a period of time, frightening her into submission with witchcraft, before helping her husband commit rape.

Carolee Hickman denies three counts of indecent assault and aiding and abetting her husband.

Albert John Hickman told the court he did recall her but only as one of a group of youngsters who came to see his own four children.

He added: “We were never alone in the house with her”.

At the time, he didn’t know his wife had any interest in the occult that went beyond reading Dennis Wheatley novels.

“And Dennis Wheatley is not illegal,” he told the court.

He said he was never involved in black magic rituals himself and if ceremonies did take place at any of their homes he was unaware of it.

“I just think it’s all just rubbish,” he told the jurors.

The couple were divorced while he served his sentence for abuse and his wife was serving a five-year term but later remarried - after she had had a second husband.

“I married her again because I loved her - I always have,” he said.

Hickman said the abuse which landed him in jail had been one-off crime.

“I never did anything before it and haven’t since.

He said in that case he had not forced the 13-year-old victim but had ‘talked her into it’.

Albert Hickman denies a single count of rape.

The case continues.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
