
YEREVAN, MAY 19, ARMENPRESS.  Armenia's government through implementing the projects of the tourism policy objectives and measures to increase competitiveness in the global tourism market expects to provide at least 5 percent annual growth of tourism. This is listed in the program of the new Government for 2014-2017, which was approved at the special sitting of the executive body on May 19.

It is also planned to establish a Tourism Development Fund of Armenia (a specialized structure for tourism marketing and promotion).

Various events will be held in the communities aimed at tourism development, rehabilitation of local traditions, discovery of tourism potential, tourism product diversification, development of new tourist routes, and the due presentation of domestic and international market, including organization of traditional holidays and festivals. Jointly with Iran and Georgia a regional tourism product will be formed, which will be presented to the world market.

"Armenpress" News Agency introduces Armenia's 7 major monastery complexes.

The world has changed, as well as tourists, their demands and approaches. In these  circumstances, it is necessary to train such people that will satisfy the demands of a new  tourist.

They believe that the first stimulus for the expansion of these directions is the facilitation of  tourist visas to the EU countries and also the change of air ticket prices, in connection with  Armenia’s new policy in the field of aviation.

The copyright for information published on this web site is owned exclusively by Armenpress news agency.  All information materials published on this website are intended solely for personal use.

For full or partial reproduction of any material in other media it is required to acquire written permission from Armenpress news agency. Those, who have committed copyright violations, will be prosecuted accordingly.

Website administration is not responsible neither for opinions expressed on the website, nor for the content of the advertisements and of the external links.
