
Washington (CNN) -- Congressional experience isn't the political asset it once was for presidential hopefuls, according to a new national poll.

Instead, a Pew Research Center survey released Monday indicates that serving as a governor may be a better training ground for White House contenders.

According to the poll , 44% of Americans say that serving as a governor better prepares someone to be president, with an equal amount saying serving in Congress is the better preparation. That's a dramatic change from 1987, when by a three-to-one margin Americans said serving in Congress rather than as a governor was the best preparation for being president. Even seven years ago, by at 55%-24% margin, the public said Congress was a better place to get prepared for higher office.

In a separate question which tested whether 16 traits and characteristics would make someone more or less likely to support a candidate for president, a third say they'd be more likely to support a presidential candidate with experience as a governor, compared to only 19% who say they'd be more likely to support a candidate with "many years" of experience as an elected official in Washington.

The 19% who say they'd be more likely to support a presidential contender with lots of Washington experience was down from 35% just seven years ago.

In 2008 Barack Obama became the first sitting U.S senator since John F. Kennedy in 1960 to win election to the White House. But Obama had only served in the Senate for four years before winning the presidency. Before his 2004 election to the Senate, Obama was a state lawmaker in Illinois.

Obama's two immediate predecessors, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, were sitting governors when they were elected president.

The Pew poll indicates that military service remains the most valuable asset for a presidential hopeful among the 16 traits and characteristics. Forty-three percent of those questioned say they would be more likely to back a presidential candidate with military experience.

At the other end of the spectrum, not believing in God and never having held any elective office are seen as the most negative traits.

CNN Political Editor Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.

"Please post the list of Obama-Democrat spending cuts to prove your point. It should not take long to type nothing in.

They were talking about the very predictable growth in entitlement spending, social security and medicare and if that wasn't enough, the massive cost of servicing the debt, especially if interest rates rose.  Nobody in the history of this country has run such large deficits for so long.  Obama is the KING of debt, hands down.

Obama's trillion dollar deficits have been totally self inflicted.  He made the one time TARP spending part of the permanent budget ($800 billion).  Then instituted economy and job killing policies that continue to this day.  We have the lowest labor participation rate in 30 years and we aren't creating enough jobs to satisfy new people coming into the work force.

Democrats just don't understand (or won't admit), we have reached a spending level THAT DEMANDS strong economic growth in order to pay for their massive social welfare state.  Without that strong economic growth, we must borrow more and more.

@Donna, these economic stagnation came from GOP thugs bickering and not passing "JOBS-BILL". Which they ran in 2010, where is it?  Their aim was Obama to one term president.  Be glad stocks represent a strong economic forecast.  Remove all republican trash.

@Rudy- Is military service bad? Obama is commander of our military but he doesn`t run our country. The three branches goverment run our country.So what on earth are you talking about? My opinion relates to the potus being the commander of our military.

Democrats just don't understand (or won't admit), we have reached a spending level THAT DEMANDS strong economic growth in order to pay for their massive social welfare state. Without that strong economic growth, we must borrow more and more.
