
While the main party in the Left Front, CPI (M), discusses the reasons of the failure in Delhi, the smaller allies of the coalition said the Front has failed to provide ‘an alternative’ to the misrule of the UPA. While a senior leader of the Communist Party of India (CPI) was critical of the entire Front, Khsiti Goswami, veteran leader of the Revolutionary Socialist party (RSP) criticised the CPI (M) for chasing other political parties with ‘begging bowl’ for post-poll alliance.

“The Left had no alternative to the Congress’ misrule at the Centre,” confesses CPI leader Prabodh Panda. Three-time winner from Medinipur, he failed to defend his seat from yesteryear actor Sandhya Roy of the Trinamool Congress.

“The 10-year stint of the UPA was marred by scams. There was no stability at the Centre. The Left could not contribute much to bring in stability amidst this. The BJP used this opportunity to promise a stable and strong government,” Mr. Panda said.

“The Congress-led government at the Centre was very weak. There was too much of corruption. This was used as an advantage by the BJP. Their prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi created a one-man army, went about talking of his party’s Hindutva policies, and won people’s confidence. That is how the BJP cut into the Left’s votes in the State as well,” said Mr. Goswami.

Mr. Goswami said people failed to trust the main party in the coalition. “How would people have confidence in a party [CPI (M)] that had been going around with a begging bowl, knocking on other parties’ doors to ask for seats? People have stopped identifying with their intellectual policies,” he said.

Blaming the Left for not controlling violence during the panchayat elections in the State at the right time, Mr. Panda said this gave rise to more instances of violence during the general elections.

Admitting that the Left should now introspect on its failure, Mr. Goswami said the results of the Lok Sabha elections would have to be scrutinised so that the party could learn from its mistakes for the Vidhan Sabha elections in 2016.

“We are yet to have an internal meeting within the party. Once that is done, we’ll see what can be done for the Vidhan Sabha elections,” Mr. Panda said.
