
YEREVAN, MAY 19, ARMENPRESS. The Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, Parliamentary Faction members,   the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Greece to the Republic of Armenia Ioannis Tais, the clergymen and the representatives of the Greek community of Armenia on May 19, visited the Tsitsernakaberd memorial and laid wreaths and flowers at the Armenian Genocide memorial . As "Armenpress" was informed from the Department of Public Relations and Mass Media of the Parliament of the Republic of Armenia, those present bowed their heads and in silence paid tribute to the memory of the victims of the Pontic Greeks’ Genocide committed in the territory of Asia Minor by the Ottoman Turkey from 1915 to 1923.

Artic Diocese, His Eminence Archbishop Hovakim Manukyan performed a requiem in the memory of the victims.

The Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Edward Sharmazanov noted that the Armenian authorities are doing everything for the condemnation of the planned and organized genocide of the Christian peoples in the territory of Asia Minor by the Ottoman Turks, adding that on April 24, 2011, the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia has called on the international community to condemn not only the Armenian Genocide, but the Greek and Assyrian as well. Edward Sharmazanov believes that the symbol of the day is to live and to fight. "We have to fight for the protection of the human rights and the restoration of the historical justice" - said the Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly.

The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Greece to the Republic of Armenia Ioannis Tais also condemned the Genocide of the Armenians and the Potic Greeks committed in the territory of Asia Minor by the Ottoman Turkey from 1915 to 1923, noting that the Greek Parliament has officially recognized and condemned the Genocide of the Armenians and the Pontic Greeks.

The Chairman of “Ilios" NGO, representative of the Greek community Slava Rafaelidis noted that we should be claimant and fight jointly for the restoration of the historical justice.

The copyright for information published on this web site is owned exclusively by Armenpress news agency.  All information materials published on this website are intended solely for personal use.

For full or partial reproduction of any material in other media it is required to acquire written permission from Armenpress news agency. Those, who have committed copyright violations, will be prosecuted accordingly.

Website administration is not responsible neither for opinions expressed on the website, nor for the content of the advertisements and of the external links.
