
I'm sure you have heard the phrase "It's all smoke and mirrors." I never really understood what that meant, particularly as it relates to science, until the debate on climate change began. To be truthful, when this debate started and it was referred to as "global warming," I was naively confident the data presented had been carefully and honestly collected, even though I did not agree with its interpretation.

But over the years, it has become obvious to my colleagues and me that in a desperate attempt to dupe the public, the science has become totally corrupted. Have you ever wondered how increasing the carbon-dioxide level in the atmosphere can cause the climate to change? Those pushing this idea hope you are not smart enough to fill in the blanks.

More than 20 years ago, certain individuals planted a seed that suggested rising CO2 levels in the atmosphere would lead to increases in global temperature, caused by the greenhouse-gas effect. They brought out valid data showing a strong correlation between atmospheric CO2 level and global temperature, but never proved cause and effect. It took "skeptics" to show the temperature changes about 400 years before CO2 level changes, making the greenhouse-gas theory moot.

Full Access to articles on REP-AM.COM is available at no charge to Republican-American 7 Day Subscribers. To activate your subscription or purchase an online subscription , log on or Register now.

Please be civil and respectful.

If you're witty, to the point and quotable, your reader comments may also be included on the Around the Towns page of The Sunday Republican.

Readers must be registered and logged in to post comments on the site.  Registration is free. Click Here to register.

A Subscription is not required to post comments only a Registration.

" How true.  And what these warmists don't realize (because they aren't real scientists) is that more smoke (fine particulate matter in the air e.g. from volcanic eruptions and other sources) actually causes global COOLING.  So I say let them continue to increase their use of smoke and mirrors...that way we will be proven right as the earth cools.  LOL ROTF! "

" Free and James,

You guys missed a pretty good planet change story on page 3 today.

Well, you probably saw it but you guys have your own agenda and you don't have any facts to get in the way.

Barrante, You remind me of one of those doctors the tobacco companies would use in the 60s and 70s.

"Oh no. There's no short or long term problems with smoking"

Remember them? That's you James, selling your soul for a few bucks and some notoriety.

Freepress, your problem is that you aren't an American. You're a "convervative" hopelessly locked into the right-wing ideology.

Whatever a liberal says, you must say the opposite.

You and the others right-wingers here and on blog sites around the country celebrate every negative thing that happens to the country.

God forbid you say, "Al Gore makes some good climate points" or "That Dodd/Frank bill is meant to protect us middle class guys"

Or that "Obamacare still has some issues but overall its going to be a good thing for the nation"

No, you guys had a huge party when the federal web site failed.

While honest desent is a good thing, what you do is traitorous. "

" No, Sandy, what we do IS truly American.  We do not join the lemmings as they go off the cliff to their deaths. We actually have Americans' interests at heart, NOT politics, NOT an ideology half of Americans hate, NOT a questionable agenda, NOT specific financial interests (like wind or solar energy). We are about the truth, real science, real facts (not speculation), logical and rational thinking.  And, true to form, because liberal warmists like you cannot refute our statements with solid evidence, you attack us personally.

You do realize, like at Jamestown, if you drink the demagogue's KoolAid, it WILL kill you? "

" There are people who create things that drive people to buy, like Bill Gates, Steve Jobs.  Then there are people like Al Gore and democrats who use fear to make us all buy things we normally wouldn't out of fear of state, like helmets, CFL bulbs, lousy shower heads, etc.  I bet they line their companies and pockets right up.  There are those that create for profit and those that destroy our liberty for profit. "

" @ Alffie..Al Gore made a $BILLION +  selling these lemmings global _____.(fill in the blank). While he leaves a bigger carbon footprint than any 50 people you know added together.   You drive your government mandated Chevy Volt while he rides in a stretch limo to his private jet to trot across the globe to spread his snake oil lies. "

" God forbid you say, "Al Gore makes some good climate points" or "That Dodd/Frank bill is meant to protect us middle class guys"

Or that "Obamacare still has some issues but overall its going to be a good thing for the nation"

wow, 0 for 3. to believe that any of those things is good for the country is to be truly blinded. "

He never mentions scientific organizations that support his data and computations.

His editorials are basically his own personal CO2 figures and his own sarcasisms.

I'm just wondering if you guys ever noticed that "
