
Defence Minister Senator David Johnston has again raised the possibility of Australia acquiring a number of Lockheed Martin F-35B short take off and vertical landing (STOVL) versions of the Joint Strike Fighter for operation from the RAN’s new Canberra class LHD vessels.

Defence officials have consistently tried to pour cold water on the possibility of Australia buying F-35Bs over the years, despite its commonality with the conventional takeoff F-35A version of which the RAAF is acquiring 72 examples.

The Canberra class LHDs are being built optimised for amphibious operations using water craft and helicopters, and do not have sufficient fuel and weapons bunkerage to operate F-35Bs without a considerable upgrade in the RAN’s support ship fleet. Further, and while the possibility of cross-decking with F-35Bs of the USMC, the UK and other partner nations exists and will likely be encouraged, the LHDs do not have the thermion heat-resistant deck coating required to accommodate the F-35B’s exhaust for extended operations.

The F-35A and B models share about 60 per cent of their structure and a much higher percentage of their key systems and have similar handling characteristics in conventional flight regimes, meaning the logistics and initial training requirements would be broadly similar. But the F-35B is projected to cost about 20 per cent more than the F-35A, will be operationally limited to 7.5g and has about 30 per cent less range due to the need to accommodate the large lift fan, and will require a specialist flight training regime for deck operations and specialist maintenance training for under-way sustainment and support.

I’m actually feeling the same sentiments as Bill. That’s a lot of extra outlay and ongoing costs, as well as all the additional crewing requirements. As great as this would be, I’m unfortunately finding it hard to see it as realistic. One thing that does come to mind is the way the previous Coalition government provided $6 billion over 10 years for the Super Hornet fleet as extra, separate funding. But that was when the budget was in far, far better shape than it is now.

All very interesting and exciting anyway, especially that the MINDEF is scoping out the possibilities! I was very surprised to learn that it’s “an option which has been considered from day one”, as I was under the impression that the official line was not to operate anything of the sort from the RAN’s LHD’s. Oh well, goes to show that these things do and are getting looked at behind the scenes!

Comments please!

If we are going to purchase F-35B it would be better to purchase a light carrier.

I am all for the ADF having a F-35B on station flying off a light carrier and protecting the fleet.

Adding SH-60R  and a form of helicopter AWAC’s( like the Sea King AEW) would compliment the light carrier as a whole.

I am sure Senator Johnson is being informed that the Canberra LHD is not a dedicated carrier for fast jets.

The Canberra class have limitations as they have no  Air Traffic control radars(or  Marshalling Air Traffic control radars)no bunkerage area for weapons or fuel that would be required to arm and fuel hungry fast jets.

The F-35B would burn a lot more fuel compared to helicopters.

Look at the Wasp LHD they are 40,000 ton compared to the Canberra at 27,000 ton.

That extra 13,000 ton covers space for fuel,weapons and the F-35B.

You never know,in 15(plus) years time ,after the Super hornets are retired we may just purchase F-35B and maybe a light carrier.I am sure Navantia could modify a Canberra class into a dedicated light carrier.Time will tell.

While I agree that F-35B has an undesirable performance, range and payload decrement compared to the F-35A, and I agree that the modifications required to operate F-35 effectively from the Canberra class would be extensive and carry high risk, here’s some food for thought. Lets take a notional area of operation, 2 hours transit from the nearest jet capable base. Say, with your refuelling, you get 2 hours on task in the area of operations. Then our RAAFies have to fly 2 hours home (These numbers are just for arguments sake here to, I don’t know that much about actual F-35 range capabilities…). So say you want to have 2 jets on station for a six hour period, you need to have 10 jets (ignoring that you can possibly turn jets around at base, rearming and refuelling them) available for that task alone, because for every aircraft on task, you need another two airborne. Plus, because you’ve got a tanker (presumably we’re using our shiny jets rather than Tiger because we’ve had a disagreement with country with a respectable air defence capability), you need more jets to cover the tanker while it’s airborne (another 4 to provide the required coverage? another 6?).

@ Bill a light carrier would do Air Warfare/Air defence  better than a Hobart.

Using missile’s to defend against a jet is a poor man’s weapon.

Nothing dose Air Defence better than a fast jet.

We got ripped off on our AWD we paid a premium , 8 billion for 3 AWD.

We probably could have bought a light carrier and 12-18 F-35 B’s for that.

And the Def Min’s comments also give some clarity (thought it’s still pretty foggy!) to the PM’s statement at the announcement of the additional 58 F-35A’s, where he said that the choice of ‘what type’ hadn’t been decided on, if and when the last batch of (up to 28) F-35′s is eventually decided, these comments open up way more questions than there are answers for.

Whilst I certain agree that the debate on ‘if, when and how’ a STOVL capability for the RAN might potentially be raised and reintroduced (that’s all good as a discussion), but there are so many other questions that would need to be answered too.

* If it is intended to be a full time capability, then we would also need to invest in ‘purpose’ built carrier(s) too, be that modified Canberra, or for example, something based on the Italian Cavour (purposed designed for the task).

I’m not against the RAN getting back into the carrier business, as long as it is properly ‘funded’ and that some other important capability isn’t lost in the process.

Suppose we will just have to wait till the new DWP, due in around 12 moths to get the answer, or hopefully some of our defence journalists can ask the question of the Def Min before that time too.

Interesting to say the least!

Cheers,

The point is valid, no F35B’s, unless upgrades are made. Still the possibility of F35B should be keep around. Perhaps Navy moving back into fixed wing operations, co operating with the RAAF, is something to be studied. Carrier operations in the future may be necessary. Russia, India and China are building carriers for operations in the Pacific/Indian oceans. Australia should review and look at operations by the Royal Navy and the US Marines, in the future, rather than dismiss it out of hand. If Australia wants to remain a viable power in the region.

The UK’s influence on the World stage since then concerning the Cold War, is one to remember. We don’t know what will the future will be like Royal Navy’s example, proves that. Extending our options, helps maintain our future as an independent nation.

So not now, but not dismiss all together.

I like that there is some factual information both in the article and comments. Essentially this is something I would like to see,but in reality agree with the points made by Raymond, Peter and Bill. I can see that there is a major advantage to having this capability, but I just do not see it as cost effective.

Just a point not mentioned. Rate of Effort. Tanking a fighter force can be difficult (almost impossible at some distances) for a maneuvering task force of LHD/AWD’s to provide effective 24/7 cover from land bases. It’s an argument for organic naval fighter aircraft. However again you need a lot of aircraft on the deck to generate this over the carrier, a number beyond the capability of a mixed air wing given the size of the LHD’s. There is the need for AEW/AWAC on the ship if a quick reaction launch model is adopted. Here the E-7′s can help, but again will cut into the limited tanking and create a defensive headache for the AWDs as they are high value assets. You don’t need to shoot it down to make it run for home and expose the fleet. And I realise that the USMC operate a handful off LHD’s, but remember that behind them is a CVN Battle group.

Just a few questions and comments Richard.

Since the historic introduction of Harrier like aircraft it seemed obvious that Australia more than most western countries needed them not just for obvious naval purposes but also for short term use on remote prepared small fields.This might’,and I could stand corrected allow their limited deployment on suitable landing fields throughout the Pacific, South East Asia and our remote northern coast.

Perhaps we have a cryptic response to the loss of our F111s and their previous conspicuous, theoretical capacity to respond to an apparent threat.

Hey Ben,  I like your thoughts on how many fast jets from shore bases are required to protect a LHD in conflict. As an alternative to on-board F-35Bs, and long flight times for shore based jets, why not change our order from Tritons ( unarmed ) to Global Hawks ( armed ) – they can stay on station 24 hours +.  The ADF could pre-deploy them “just in case”, and up at 50,000 feet, no ones going to see them unless they’re called in for a lower level employment of weapons. Then the Navy can save all the $$ for modifying the LHDs, the cost of F-35Bs, and use the LHDs as Landing Helicopter Docks. With armed Global Hawks, AWDs loaded with ICBMs, E/A-18G Growlers and Wedgetails co-ordinating the lot, we pose a worthwhile deterrent.

In the meantime, lets wait until the first 2 RAAF F-35As are actually ready to fly – later this year, then wait until the first 2 RAAFies get to actually fly an F-35A, which won’t be until next year, and see if we actually like them, before we get too excited about more F-35s be they A models or Bs.

The real argument is whether we should buy any brand of F35s. I do not consider we are getting value for a colossal amount of money, spending the same amount on more Super Hornets with conformal tanks make much more sense.

There is no doubt in my mind that the ultimate bill for the F35 will be a lot lot higher – given its track record to date.

Forget the F35, stealth with poor performance, payload, range is just not worth it.

There have been some very good pro’s and cons mentioned here so far. Might as well add a few more.

The next White Paper could be an interesting read given that SE Asia is continuing to evolve at an increasing pace. If Australia is going to go back into the business of being ‘Big Brother’ in the region like it was back in the 60′s, 70′s and 80′s it is probably going to need to increase its force projection quite a bit. It should be noted though that Australia wouldn’t be an independent war fighting power but rather part of a larger most likely US led force. So it would continue to be a plug n play force like it was in Iraq and Afghanistan integrating with other Western/NATO allies.

I think if Australia did return to operating fast jets at sea, it would only be a part time capability. I could only see between 4 or maybe 6 aircraft going to sea at any one time on an LHD. The rest of the time, when not practicing STOVL operations at land bases, the F35Bs could/would integrate with the regular operations of the remainder of the F35A’s albeit with a reduced range and weapons load.  I think from memory the Melbourne only operated a handful of Skyhawks (3 or 4) and any one time. That capability back then was only small as the focus of the FAA then was ASW. So 4 to 6 F35B’s would represent quite a sizable capability increase. In any case, that number of aircraft would be sufficient to act as either a deterrent against attack or a modest plug n play capability to a US led expeditionary force.

An F-35B purchase would be a major part in the increased force projection alongside an increased submarine capability. Running the B models wouldn’t be as hard a task as it would have been operating a Harrier capability or a full traditional Carrier capability. Given that the B model can take off and land in a conventional configuration, there would still be a large amount of commonality with the A model in both training and maintenance activities. The obvious difference of course being the STOVL ops part which would involve an extra syllabus component being added to the flight and maintenance training programs. It would also make most sense to let the RAAF operate the aircraft. This would allow for the most streamlined training and operational employment options. Basing them out of Williamtown would allow for all maintenance and operational conversion training and logistics to be centralised in order to reduce cost. I don’t think the RAN would jump up and down over this as the bulk of the helicopter force for the new LHDs will be provided by the Army as it is.

The jets would more than likey be brought in to replace the Super Hornets in the late 2020′s as they begin to wind down. By then hopefully any bugs would have been ironed out, and the cost per unit dropped.

As far as the LHDs are concerned, the Spanish only have one and now that their carrier has been retired it will take up the fast jet capability. Modifications would obviously have to be made to the ships but I’m sure this would all be covered within the larger scheme of any potential plan. The LHDs will have reached major refit stage by the time any B models enter service, meaning that any provision of extra modifications or electronics/Radar upgrades would be due in a similar time frame.

Just to clarify, no models of the Global Hawk or the Triton are armed – all they carry are sensors and comms.

Historically, the RAN operated carriers of various types very successfully for many years. Remember that our last carrier option was taken away from us because of a scuffle half a world away. (for those of you too young to remember google the faulklands war). Each of the problems others have listed are not insurmaountable. When you look at the flexibility of the LHD, tinkering to upgrade to jet ops is not that difficult, the capacity is there. As an aside, the elevator diagrams all have sillouhettes of F35s on them! (Apparaently!) As a power projection option and a fast reaction for regional operations, this would be a very successful and effective strategy.

The RN and RAF have, with a reasonable amount of success, played nicely together with the Harrier GR9 when the others were either upgraded to this or scrapped. It’s certainly a model we can consider as a basis for our own operations.

When you consider the capabilities of our major assets working together its actually quite an impressive collection. And quite deadly. E7, AWD, FFH, JORN, LHD, F35A, F/A18E/G, ARH, MH60R and not forgetting the troops on the ground, all of these create an unprecedented battle picture for the ADF. If you then place the B model in the mix, it fills gaps left by the other air assets.

One last point I would like to make is that, you can have all the toys in the world but they are absolutely useless if they don’t work properly. Again, this is an area that we as a nation have an advantage. Our personnel are well trained, we enjoy significantly more up time than other forces and we have sound logisitc support. We might have a small fleet, we may not have that many members in uniform but what we do have works, and works very well.

Raymond, I have absolutely no doubt that there is plenty of horse trading going on, and has been for quite some time, by the three service chiefs for this very predicament!

Andrew,

sorry for my mistake, however the armed option still exists with UAVs like the MQ-9 Reaper Block 1- Plus, or the Marina naval version, with endurance claimed at up to 49 hours.  Where the ADF has to play “catch up” for the funds lost during the previous governments reign, the list for hardware is long, and cost effective and capable alternatives should be considered.

In all of this we should not forget some often ignored but enormously important rules regarding equipment and capability procurement.

1. The rule of 3 – it’s relatively useless buying less than 3 equipment blocks. For several years it has been acknowledged that military forces need to be postured through 3 stages – raise, train, and sustain (in modern parlance). You can’t achieve sustainable use of personnel and equipment without these steps, so buying less than 3 (or 3 groups) is a major handicap.

2. 66% on line – you can rarely if ever get more than 66% of your fleet on line, so you either need to buy more or expect less.

3. Never buy Gen 1…..

So if you want to go down this path we need 1 more LHD, 2 more Bay Class HMAS Choules, another 1-2 supply ships, plus 3 F35Bs for every 2 on line (28 total = 18 on decks).

Random – some good points.

If you take the new MH-60R Romeos coming online as an example, the RAN has bought 24 helos in order to be able to support eight aircraft at sea at any one time, so I would suggest you 66% rule is in fact reversed.

I agree that the ADF would need another LHD with properly configured aviation spaces to support an F-35B capability, as well as additional replenishment ships, and probably another AWD.

But we’re putting the cart before the horse – unless the force posture review and the coming defence white paper have reversed course entirely, there is currently no requirement for the ADF to project forward an amphibious/naval air combat capability.

Not to mention the supposed “budget emergency” we’re currently experiencing!

I just love it when people start guessing what the Navy needs. Two LHD’s is just fine, though a real aircraft carrier is really needed.

Supply ships hold the fuel and supply it at sea. It’s called RAS (pronounced RAZ) for Replenishment At Sea.The aircraft are shifted around deck to make room for flight operations. There is plenty of room on that deck. You only take the aircraft you need. At times we had no Harriers on board the Ark, but usually six.  Though more AWD’s are a no brainer and glad others realise that the RAAF can’t provide the air protection that they suppose. Hopefully at least another AWD will be in the coming white paper.

Heat resistant paint covering is really not an issue.

The Fleet Air Arm is the best spot for these aircraft if they ever do get them. Bottom line. It would cost the same whomever takes it. Obviously they would be based at a RAAF base such as Williamtown for ease of supply.

A full complement  of Tiger attack Helo’s serve the purpose that the LHD was originally purchased, namely an amphibious landing of troops in/on enemy territory, the Tigers firepower for this task is far superior to say a section of F-35′s  on low level attack. The Tigers are also able refuel and rearm in close proximity to the action, thanks to Ship, Helo resuply.

As to our Northern neighbours who posses “Real” carriers, the LHD’s and their six or so F-35B cover flight would not last one sorty from even a single small carrier. Answer, the new Hunter Attack subs, which all surface ships take as an extremely serious threat..

F-35B acquisition, total waste! Purchase two more A-330 tankers, and another Wedgetail, which will increase the F-35A’s ability to fly cover for the Navy when needed.

we would need a force of at least 6 ships with a full compliment, to be anyway effective in a hostile situation . those ships require protection and on it goes.

This reeks of justifying a new toy and to show what we have or can deploy to our neighbours.

the numbers are so small to almost useless in a warlike situation.

history repeats itself , I see echo of old generals who called heroic men cowards for not charging across open ground in the face of withering machine gun fire , the technology had moved on , the foot soldier and the charge was being replaced on the battlefield by tanks and protective cover provided by those vehicles.

here we have a situation where manned aircraft , very expensive manned aircraft are being used to perform what are battle field support operations that could be as one writer noted our tiger helos,

these aircraft have neither the range or capability to engage with any fighter in the Sulkoi class .

The age of the drone is coming , maybe not autonomous , but certainly guided from  a secure remote location. look at the effectiveness of the drone in Afghanistan ,or Yemen ,

old military thinking has to change , the romantic image of the fighter jock is coming to an end , there will always be a place for manned military aircraft , but the new aircraft will  be, evasive , stealthy, and survivable . robotics is coming ,like it or not.

Leave these ships to the purpose they were originally designed for  and forget this massive waste of money.

There was a clear decision not to operate fixed winged aircraft from the Canberra Class from the beginning. I for one thought was very much the Leftists that remain in the Defence Beacuracy who see Carriers or any platform that can launch fixed winged aircraft as Weapons Proliferation issues.  This is why the hospital, surgical ward and dental capabilities were made such a big thing off and the ability to provide aid to the region in the case of a natural disaster. However, regionally India, China, Thailand and Japan more or less have this capability in some form or another.  Defence was so set on not having this capability that they even examined removing the ski jump ramp but found that removal produced some other issues and that it actually provided a lot of storage space. Questions I asked of DMO stated that about $15 million would be required for the installation of just one radar to support fixed wing aircraft on a Canberra, let alone acquire the skills so that we could have allied aircraft cross deck and operate from our ships.  Thought was given to installing the radars for UCAVs but nothing serious. I secretly thought that there were those whom within Defence thought that retro fitting in the future could support F-35Bs, however deliberate modifications eroded this option with how changes were made to fuel storage, refuelling, weapons storage etc.

Spain has retired its Aircraft Carrier Príncipe de Asturias and adopted the Juan Carlos I upon which the Canberra Class are based as their aircraft carrier. They are operating their Matador AV-8B IIs off the deck with the intention of using the F-35B in the future. The Juan Carlos I has eight landing spots for its AV-8BII on the deck and it would be assumed that more of this aircraft type may be carried below the deck with a mixture of helo types.

The statement in one posting about using Tigers to provide support for Amphioxus operations is missing the point. The Tigers biggest weapons is the AGM-114 Hellfire missile, a bunker buster, anti-armour weapon with a range of 8 kms, it is not even a ship killer which is another issue of concern.  The Tiger/Hellfire is a little different to the long range, mixed variety of hard hitting ordnance types that be carried by a JSF which can provide standoff range, Combat Air Patrol and loiter.  Whilst it is unlikely that the Canberra Class will go anywhere without the protective bubble of the Hobart Class Air Warfare Destroyers (just 3 being built is a little concerning) modern amphibious operations and cheap anti shipping missiles and sea mines require standing off over the horizon to be safe.  This erodes the capabilities of the Tiger somewhat which should be focused on escorting the MRH-90 TTH and CH-47D/F Chinooks and on the prowl for Boaghammer type small and fast attack boats.

I read your your comments with interest and share a few of your views particularly on wasting peoples lives in mindless wartime operations. Some of your points however are debatable and may be looked at from several other more informed points of view as can be seen above.

During WW 2 when Japan invaded what is now Indonesia there was not one Australian operational fighter aircraft in Northern Australia or New Guinea. Luckily by the time they reached our doorsteps they were over extended and their ability to wage a land war had diminished.  We should also mention by then the previously neutral USA was arming itself , the UK and  us to fight an offensive war in the pacific.

To assume we are not vulnerable to aggression or at least intimidation by regional powers is simplistic and that relatively untried, advanced, unmanned aerial vehicles with a limited operational spectrum are the only bow in our quiver is dangerous.

If only to support the escape of our citizens from a war zone or tell a regional bully to stop killing its own people we might need to project the few affordable assets we have and not sit Idle. To do this we need real versatile aircraft not just spin telling us how useless F 35s are. This comment is regularly trotted out to baffle the uninformed and support in our case the underfunded malaise that occurs in western countries whenever an overtly left wing government leaves power. It is in all our interests to ensure the ADF is well prepared and that the lives of our and other peaceful people are not subjected to the type of inhumanity we saw in WW 2, Libya, East Timor, Cambodia etc.

Oh please.

It was quietly known from the start (the Land Warfare Centre get-together of 2002 which selected this ship over Mistral) that no additional money would be voted to remove the full light carrier capability designed into these ships by the Spanish from the start. Treasury was there and made that very plain. They retain all the missile and bomb lifts, fuel capacity, ramp and workshop/accom space for a fixed wing CAG. The Treasury bloke scotched any idea of providing more money to remove that stuff, and did so strongly and on the record.

Navy knew what it meant and the looks on their faces when the Treasury rep said  that were simply priceless as they knew they were back in the carrier game. I know this as I was there in the second row. They just never mention it because it rakes up too much old baggage and scares certain people. It also makes common sense and strategic sense to maximise the potential of such a long term asset – who can predict the strategic environment 40 years out? Let me tell you, Army was extremely supportive of the idea of having a light long range mudbashing and excellent anti-attack-helo capability on these ships, and still is.

Should have gotten the greater part of the order as F35B even if it meant getting less aircraft overall – 24 of the F35A and 30 of the F35B would provide far more flexibility than the A model only strategy.

Australia is a continent with thousands of KM coastline, surrounded by ocean and long distances – VTOL or carrier based aircraft are very sensible.

Consider the recent MH370 search the F35B with it’s sensors and speed operating from ship would have a massive advantage over other aircraft that have to spend most of their fuel just to get to the search area and return before thy run out or rely on costly in air refuelling.

F35B could operate from a helicopter landing dock right in the search area.

Gerald ,

thanks for your thoughts, I think you miss my point regarding my views on this,  I totally agree we need to project ourselves a strong viable military power, my point is that we should use and operate aircraft and systems that are effective , capable and will do the job that is required.

I strongly feel this is not the way to go . We are looking at a massive expenditure and support structure for what is realistically ,a small limited weapons system . we at the moment are not in any way threatened by any regional power, that as we all know too well change in months with the political climates in some countries.

I have seen the Russian Sulkoi aircraft fly first hand , and believe me , with a well trained pilot it would be difficult to engage them with anything less than a F22. The range alone would be a huge deficit for these aircraft to overcome .and wargame after wargame shows this to be the case, it doesn’t matter how good our boys are , if you can’t stick around to secure an area , and have to head home it doesn’t matter what super computer you have installed.,

But they also will not be pigeon holed by the Americans and made to only operate as a regional player , they will project force in the Pacific Basin and we have to show that while we are small , we can still punch above our weight.  I read extensively on remote systems , small stealthy high flying drones would be very very difficult to monitor or defeat , and they would provide an effective weapons platform for stand off weapons, the American s know this that is why they are already testing Carrier based drones. the costs to our country would be better spent on the future not something that was designed in the 90′s and is not up to the challenge.

I appreciate your points and agree in the main with all of them however it seems to me that F35s, F35Bs, LHDs and later armed and stealthy drones will be purchased not to control a large airspace or win an all out war but to be quickly projected into troubled areas, leave their desired mark and go.

Eventually together with our future submarine fleet our varied ability to unsettle an aggressor will make them think carefully before they chance coming south. Just hope our government wakes up in time to stop small local developing countries from offering bases to potential aggressors.

Finally I agree we appear to need to play catch up on advanced UAVs and spend more on obtaining, operating and even making our own. Even so after reading of the way Iran captured at least one US, stealth, spy drone a few year ago and not knowing the developmental time frames for the varieties of UAVs we need it seems prudent to  have an apparent, manned, stealth response. Every weapon including advanced UAVs have a weakness and very few people seem to mention theirs.

On A2A, F35 combines F18′s high attack angle and F16′s high speed.

The frontal cross section of the F-35 isn’t much bigger than most 4/4.5 Generation Fighter.

F35′s front profile is similar to F18E.

As far as agility is concerned I think the super hornet would be able to out turn the F35. Where the F35 should excel is it’s sensor package and situational awareness but  the raw performance I think will lack.
