
Essaouira – The Moroccan Jewish community marked in the week end in the Aït Bayyoud village (province of Essaouira), the annual festival of Rabbi Nessim Ben Nessim.

Pilgrims from Morocco and abroad came to Essaouira to participate in this festival, which opened in the presence of the Essaouira province governor, Jamal Makhtatar, head of the Ulema provincial council, Mohamed Menguitte, head of the Jewish community of Agadir, elected and local authorities.

The members of the Moroccan Jewish community expressed, on this occasion attachment to their homeland, Morocco and prayed for the rest of the soul of the late Kings, Hassan II and Mohammed V, and implored God to grant long live to King Mohammed VI and the entire Royal family.

The province governor underlined that the festival showcases Moroccan Jews’ attachment to the Alawit throne, stressing that co-existence and tolerance have always been values that distinguish Morocco in the region.

He also urged for transmitting these values to the young generations and promoting and preserving this legacy which is the foundation of Morocco’s rich and diversified identity.

Concerning Moroccan Jews, I was once approached by one of them, she recognized me as Moroccan and started a short conversation with me. After a short talk, this women who spoke to me in English at first started to speak to me in Darija and told me that she USED to be Moroccan, now she is a proud Israeli! I was curious about the reason she and her family left for Israel, I knew the Moroccan Jews did not have to leave like in some Arab countries. Her replay was very succinct: “Because I Am a Jews she replied”. That’s how most of these people see them-self’s. They see it as their sacred duty to be in Israel and no matter how much ass-kissing by the media or people will change that. Even if you gave them anything they asked for. They want only our resources! They do not want to be Moroccan. I doesn’t matter to them. Every day we hear that they are violating our sacred sites in Palestine and killing and starving an entire population. And yes, even Israelis who have a Moroccan passport completely engage in this crimes. But they can travel to our lands without restrictions or even questions.

They have seen an opportunity  to leave and they did, without any concern or remorse or regret for leaving to a country that’s an enemy of their “Muslim brother ” and now they see an opportunity to sink their teeth again in country that they left willingly. There is no love from these people for Morocco or it’s people, they want us to be in their group of influence, nothing more. Each time they are here there are extreme security measures in place to assure them that noting will happen to them. The cost and burden that places on our resources is great, but nothing they bring in can even compensate!
