
The opposition on Monday warned all the stakeholders that Pakistan’s survival will be difficult under the regime of caliphate or dictatorship.

Commenting on a motion regarding the ongoing political situation of the country in the Upper House, Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) Senator Raza Rabbani said that the country is being ruled through parliamentary form of government under the constitution of 1973 which is the only survival of the federation.

The PPP leader said that the some political and religious political parties, capitalists and suzerains try their level best to maintain Pakistan a ‘national security state’ in past.

Rabbani said that some forces are trying to derail the ongoing democratic system while the results of such attempt will be dangerous for the federation of Pakistan.

“Supremacy of the constitution is just taking roots while some forces are involved to ruin the existing system in this regard,” he added.

Rabbani alleged that some political and non-political forces are questioning the role of election commission, judiciary and the media in the last elections of May 2013 while the same forces are involving such institutions into a controversy which are working under the constitution.

“The role of media is like a watchdog while such forces are trying to create a division among the media organisations and demanding the ban on news organisations as yet,” he said.

Senator Rabbani demanded that all political and democratic parties and progressive forces should play their role in the present circumstances.

“It’s time that all political parties and institutions put aside their interests to secure the constitution and the federation which are in danger,” he said.

Later, PPP Senator Saeed Ghani said that the government should come forward to deal with the ongoing political situation in the country.

He said that it is difficult to understand that some political parties are challenging the results of the entire election which is an attempt to derail the system.

“The PPP will not allow anyone to close any news organisations,” he clarified.

PPP Senator Farhatullah Babar said that the media is an important pillar of the democracy which is divided as yet.

“The parliament and the democracy will be in danger due to weak media in the country,” he added. He also demanded to establish a committee of the senators which play its role in the ongoing tussle between the media organisations.

Leader of the Opposition, Senator Aitzaz Ahsan said that the religious elements should understand the ongoing situation while the emotional speeches of the religious leaders against the mistake of Geo TV can creates hurdles for the employees of the news organisation.
