
Michelle Quinn is a Business Columnist at the San Jose Mercury News.  Prior to her current role, she was the Silicon Valley correspondent at Politico covering tech policy and politics. She has also covered the tech industry at the Los Angeles Times and the San Francisco Chronicle. She was a blogger for the New York Times.

In a letter to President Barack Obama, John Chambers, Cisco’s chief executive, complained about reports of the National Security Administration intercepting Cisco equipment, according to the Wall Street Journal , which had a copy of the letter.

Chambers called for the creation of new rules of the road for the NSA, that take into account both national security needs but also the needs of global commerce.

“We simply cannot operate this way, our customers trust us to be able to deliver to their doorsteps products that meet the highest standards of integrity and security,” Chambers said in the letter.

Juniper Networks also issued a similar statement, the Wall Street Journal reported.

Michelle Quinn is a Business Columnist at the San Jose Mercury News.  Prior to her current role, she was the Silicon Valley correspondent at Politico covering tech policy and politics. She has also covered the tech industry at the Los Angeles Times and the San Francisco Chronicle. She was a blogger for the New York Times.

I’m sure that’s what Barry wants, and his willfully blind religious followers believe.

Looks like we’ve found our first blind follower of the Church of Barry.

Awwwwwwwwww, don’t worry little guy, the scary black man will be out of the whitehouse soon enough and there will be a nice old white guy back in there.  He’ll be standing behind his wife, president Hillary Clinton.  Two great presidents for the price of one, baby!  Hahahahaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa, you teabaggers are the gift that keeps on giving!

No way in hell that hag is going to be the next POTUS.  Her inmability tp perform her former position as Secretary of State coupled with her age, health and lying to congress about the Benghazi events doomed any future political ambition she may have had. B.H.O. took away her one and only chane at the officee of President.  If he had not run she would have won the election and he would probably been next in line after her terms expired. Politically she is finnished. FYI I wasn’t aware that there was a black man in office, half black maybe.

You can’t beat something with nothing.

Hilary Clinton is popular, intelligent, well-informed, and fully qualified to be President. Certainly she is more qualified and better material than Reagan, or Bush Jr, or Mitt.

Republicans have a bunch of nobodies, never-weres, and couldn’t have beens. Who do the Repubs have ? Nobody. Ted Cruz ? Hah! Rand Paul. from the welfare state of Kentucky ? Nope. Sarah Palin ? Pretty but stupid ? The Republicans have nobody to match their anti-American policies. They may run the House, for now, but if you remember, every single Republican Presidential candidate starts something like 100 electoral votes behind, just like Romney did. Republicans need a STRONG candidate, yet they don’t have any, nor any that could become strong based on backward policies that are out of touch with America. Very much in touch with RURAL America, but not with the country as a whole.

For your last comment, it is unlikely there has been an all-white President (or all WASP) in quite a while.

Sure thing champ!  Your fear of a woman cannot stop the Hillary Express.  We’re going to have two great presidents for the price of one.  Also, you REALLY need some language arts classes.

Dear Aaron Moron:  I can think of at least 3 black men and two black women that I’d love to see in the whitehouse anytime — especially in place of Barry the Marxist.  Being a raging liberal, yourself, you naturally project your own deep racism and hatred on others, whom you imagine to be like you, only worse.

Naturally!

That’s why you’ve got so many of my pubes stuck in your teeth it looks like you have a mouth beard?  Riiiiiiiiiiiiiiight………………..

I know people who work at MAJOR internet companies, and they routinely insert code to allow both NSA to snoop. It’s not a very well kept secret, EVERY internet company does this, and so does Cisco and every other company, American, or otherwise.

Chambers ( a major Republican donor)  is just being a loud-mouth to get some more money out of the Repub base by claiming something unusual is happening, when it is just routine business, and has been for decades. NSA doesn’t “intercept” Cisco equipment, they work right in the same offices with Cisco employees !

If I were setting up an internet company, no way would I use American, Russian, or Israeli company for networking equipment. Not a chance.

I guarantee you that if the teabaggers all left the country, our national average I.Q. would jump about 60 points.

I know people who work at MAJOR internet companies, and they routinely insert code to allow both NSA to snoop. It’s not a very well kept secret, EVERY internet company does this, and so does Cisco and every other networking company, American, or otherwise.

Chambers (a major Republican donor)  is just being a loud-mouth to get some more money out of the Repub base by claiming something unusual is happening, when it is just routine business, and has been for decades. NSA doesn’t “intercept” Cisco equipment, they work right in the same offices with Cisco employees !

If I were setting up an internet company, no way would I use American, Russian, or Israeli company for networking equipment. Not a chance.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
