
Mexico has requested a Foreign Military Sales deal from the United States for the purchase of more than 3,000 Humvee utility vehicles for its army.

WASHINGTON, May 19 (UPI) -- A possible sale to Mexico of more than 3,000 Humvee utility vehicles awaits congressional approval.

The U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which notified Congress of the proposed Foreign Military Sales deal, said the Mexican army will use the vehicles in anti-crime and anti-drug operations.

"Mexico intends to use these defense articles and services to modernize its armed forces and expand its existing army architecture to combat drug trafficking organizations," the agency told Congress. "This will contribute to the Mexican military's goal of updating its capabilities, while further enhancing interoperability between Mexico and the U.S. and among other allies."

Mexico's shopping list: 3,335 M1152 High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicles, spare and repair parts, support and test equipment, communication equipment, personnel training and training equipment, and logistics support.

The principal contractor would be AM General and at least four U.S. government or contractor representatives would be required to travel to Mexico for three years for operational and maintenance training.

The value of the deal would be $556 million.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
