
Chipotle restaurants asks customers not to open carry firearms in restaurants after Open Carry Texas group event.

Representatives of Open Carry Texas took part in an "armed trip" to one Dallas-area Chipotle restaurant this past weekend, upsetting some anti-gun advocates.

Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America began a petition calling on Chipotle to ban guns in its restaurants, even in areas of the country where it's permitted.

"Moms want to know that when we take our families out to eat burritos, we won't be confronted with bullets," said Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action.

Chipotle responded with a statement , asking customers not to open carry weapons because it causes "anxiety and discomfort" for customers.

"We are respectfully asking that customers not bring guns into our restaurants, unless they are authorized law enforcement personnel," the statement said. "Historically, we felt it enough to simply comply with local laws regarding the open or concealed carrying of firearms, because we believe that it is not fair to put our team members in the uncomfortable position of asking that customers refrain from bringing guns into our restaurants.  However, because the display of firearms in our restaurants has now created an environment that is potentially intimidating or uncomfortable for many of our customers, we think it is time to make this request."

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
