
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Bolger: Union contribution a 'huge step forward' for Detroit bankruptcy 'grand bargain'

LANSING, MI -- The Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council plans to make "material contributions" toward retiree health care costs as part of a Detroit bankruptcy settlement that would include cash from the state, philanthropic foundations and the Detroit Institute of Arts.

A bankruptcy mediation team led by Chief U.S. District Court Judge Gerald Rosen announced the pledge Monday evening, indicating that all funds from the union coalition will be used "specifically for the purpose" of covering health care costs for Detroit retirees.

Mediators did not indicate how much the trades council would kick in but said their agreement is "further evidence that all of the stakeholders in Detroit are now coming together to facilitate a successful emergence for Detroit from the bankruptcy and a bright future for the City and its residents, employees and retirees."

The contribution would be part of a "grand bargain" designed to minimize pension cuts, protect prized works at the DIA and speed up the city's exit from bankruptcy.

Michigan lawmakers must still approve the state funding, and House Speaker Jase Bolger (R-Marshall) had suggested he would hold off on any voting  unless or until unions contribute .

Bolger, in a statement released later Monday, praised the mediation team and union leadership, calling their commitment a "huge step forward" that will "help Detroit's retirees while we work to help bring the city out of bankruptcy quickly."

"Detroit's recovery will require all hands on deck and I am grateful to see these union organizations stepping forward to take a seat at the table," Bolger continued. "This leadership is important as the full picture of the plan for Detroit's success continues to comes into focus."

The news of a union contribution comes one day before the newly formed House Committee on Detroit's Recovery and Michigan's Future is scheduled to meet for a fourth time and could vote out an 11-bill package that would pave the way for state participation in the "grand bargain."

The legislation would see Michigan couple a $194.8 million lump-sum payment for Detroit with at least 20 years of financial oversight by the state. Foundations and DIA benefactors have pledged a total of $466 million for the deal.

"As with all of the contributions to the Grand Bargain, the trade unions' participation is contingent upon full funding of the Grand Bargain by the Foundations, the State and the DIA," mediators said Monday.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
