
MAY 19 ― Recently, the internet news portal, Malaysia Chronicle carried an article “FED UP WITH MALAY RACISM & BULLYING, Chinese in Teluk Intan may not accept Dyana despite her DAP credentials”.

According to one critic, many faithful DAP supporters would be disappointed that Hew Kuan Yau, a popular local DAP leader known as “Superman” who had been touted as an early candidate for the Teluk Intan by-election scheduled for May 31 was not chosen.

Chosen instead is a Malay candidate, Dyana, the political secretary to veteran DAP politician Lim Kit Siang.

Let me also point out that the voter composition in Teluk Intan is 42 per cent ethnic Chinese, 19 per cent Indians and 38 per cent Malays ― in other words there is in fact a non-Chinese majority.

Finally let me point out that many Chinese voters are politically sophisticated. They will not vote simply on the basis of race. If Chinese voters go by race alone, then MCA and Gerakan will still have many MPs and enjoy the support of the Chinese. The fact that Chinese are politically astute is why the DAP is counting on Dyana to win the seat. This move is a logical as well as wise one.

I support it and I expect that most voters in Teluk Intan will also support this move.

Everyone knows that during the past few elections most Chinese have voted across racial lines for a clean, efficient and genuinely multi-racial government. We know also what Chinese think of the BN government.

Subsequently, the Sultan of Perak refused Mentri Besar Nizar’s request to dissolve the state assembly and call for new elections. Instead, Barisan Nasional (BN), with support from the three defecting assemblymen, formed the new ― and in my mind ― illegitimate state government. I am sure most Malaysians including even BN supporters will agree that the BN government played dirty and should not have been allowed to rule the state.

Tampering of the electoral rolls including registering foreign nationals as registered voters; individuals registered doubly as regular and postal voters; phantom voters;

Dirty tactics of election officials aimed at favouring one candidate or party.

It is important to emphasise that there is no level electoral playing field in Malaysia. This is why ― in order for the DAP candidate to win ― it is necessary that all registered voters turn up to vote. This is the only way to make sure that the election in Teluk Intan is not a close race and is not stolen by the BN.  Everyone in Teluk Intan ― Chinese, Malays and Indians ― must vote to ensure that we Perakians put a stop to the corrupt and dirty rule of BN.

*This is the personal opinion of the writer and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malay Mail Online.
