
As a film director and producer for 50 years, and a Florida educator for 36 years, I was saddened by the Legislature's recent shortsightedness in failing to pass a film incentive program to attract new productions.

About 27 years ago, the state of Florida, inspired by the success of "Miami Vice," charged the state's higher-education leaders to find a way to grow the film industry through education.

After much study, a commission recommended boosting financial support for existing film programs and the creation of new ones. One of the new programs from that initiative was the Valencia Film Production Technology Program. UCF received a matching amount of money to upgrade its existing department.

And it worked. A lot of talented filmmakers and technicians graduated from these and other Florida film schools, fueling a healthy TV and film industry and enabling key jobs to go to Floridians. Florida became the third-ranked production center in the country (behind New York and California).

Then the idea of awarding incentives caught on. North Carolina, Louisiana, New Mexico, Georgia, South Carolina, Wyoming, Oklahoma and Texas beat Florida to the punch, shifting the competitive landscape. But Florida's leadership responded, creating incentives in Florida and the industry rebounded. The future looked bright until this month, when everything changed once more. The Florida House and Senate did not fund the incentive program.

As a professional filmmaker (with over 50 feature films produced in Florida) and the son-in-law of a 14-year member of the Florida House, I am stunned and saddened that this was allowed to happen.

The economic impact of this decision reverts Florida back to square one. Without incentives, we simply can't compete with other states.

I am writing this from a location in Shreveport, La. It is a shame that I had to take my students out of state to get the hands-on feature film experience that I promised them before they signed up for Valencia's film program.

Those of us dedicated to this industry and to education must find a way to restore the funding for incentives and bring the business back. We owe it to our students.

Ralph R. Clemente is chair of the Valencia College Film Production Technology program.
