
State education agency employees testified during hearings in Cheyenne in January about Hill's erratic leadership practices, employees' discomfort spending federal special education funds on a general education program and being asked to make payments that leadership knew would result in negative audit findings.

The committee is still investigating Hill although she was recently reinstated as the Wyoming Department of Education's top official after the state Supreme Court ruled the law ousting her from power was unconstitutional.

Hill, a Republican whose term as superintendent will expire at the end of the year, has said she will challenge Republican Gov. Matt Mead for his position this fall.

Rep. Tom Lubnau, R-Gillette, speaker of the House and chairman of the investigative committee, said Friday the committee has not yet discussed whether it will suggest the House of Representatives impeach Hill.

"I hope to ... get as close to done as we possibly can," Lubnau said.

The committee will discuss what it wants in the final report on Monday, he said. Once it's finished, the committee's report will go to Hill's office, where she will have 15 days to comment. It's unclear whether the committee will meet again to discuss any comments from Hill, or will opt to finalize the report via email after the 15 days pass, Lubnau said. The report will then go to members of the House, as the committee's rules require.

"We'll probably just print it off and send it to the House," he said. "If there's a call for a special session after that, that's a whole different issue."

The meeting is open only to members of the Select Investigative Committee and staff, according to a meeting notice from the Wyoming Legislative Service Office.

Copyright 2014 The Billings Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
