
We've got continuing coverage on the Georgia Primary Elections.

The Lowndes County Board of Elections office has closed for the night with no official winners being called.

Deb Cox, the Supervisor of Elections, says they are still waiting for provisional and military ballots before they can call any of the races, which will be Friday, May 23, 2014, at 3pm.

But as of late, a couple of races to keep an eye on are the District 8 State Senate and US Representative seats. Ellis Black is leading the race for the State Senate seat with 44%. John Page has 32%, and Richard Raines has 24%.

Closer to home, Jody Hall and Scott Orenstein are neck and neck in the Lowndes County Commission District 2 race: Hall has 46% and Orenstein has 54%.

District 5 is still up in the air with Clay Griner carrying 42%, Norman Bennett with 33%, and Gretchen Quarterman holds 26%.

Over in Seminole County, there will be a runoff for the District 2 County Commission seat. Hugh Broome, III will face off against Sheila Williams in the runoff on July 22, 2014.

For any of these candidates to take the seat, they will have to receive 50% of the vote plus one vote. If they don't, it will go into a runoff.

Cox says less than 17% of active registered voters in Lowndes County voted in this election. She says it was a very low turnout, even for a midterm primary election.

WCTV will keep updating this article as those official results start coming in.

Midterm primary elections are underway in six states across the United States - one of them is Georgia.

The Director of Elections in Lowndes County says this year has seen a very low turnout, even for a midterm primary election.

She says nearly 7% of active registered voters turned out for early voting, and at noon today, that number was only 3%. While that number seems pretty low, it was calculated only this afternoon.

Some pretty crucial races are going on today in Georgia, the biggest being the Republican Primary for Georgia's Governor. Republican Nathan Deal is facing off against David Pennington and John Barge.

Another big one is the race to see who will fill retiring U.S. Senator Chambliss's seat.

Jack Kingston is in the running for that seat, so his Georgia State Senate seat has become a battleground in District 1.

There are also quite a few local elections underway as well in South Georgia.

WCTV is told the elections could have final tallies any time after 7pm. We will update this article with the results as this information becomes available.

Atlanta – Early in-person voting ended on Friday, May 16.  While mail-in absentee ballots can still be cast until the polls close tomorrow evening, the majority of early votes have been cast.

Compared with four years ago, early voting numbers are higher than they were in 2010.

In 2010, in person early voting was spread out over a seven-week period rather than the three-week period that exists now.  The numbers reflect that by compressing the process, more Georgia voters actually vote early.

Brian Kemp has been Secretary of State since January 2010. Among the offices wide-ranging responsibilities, the Secretary of State is charged with conducting secure, accessible and fair elections, the registration of corporations, and the regulation of securities and professional license holders.

I love it!

I love it!

Comments are posted from viewers like you and do not always reflect the views of this station.

For more on WCTV’s policy regarding viewer comments or to report an offensive comment, click here.
