
COMPLETED homes in housing projects should be handed over to their owners without delay, His Royal Highness Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa announced yesterday.

The Premier directed Housing Minister Bassem Al Hamer to expedite the handover and praised the quality of the houses that were being built using the highest standards.

A Housing Ministry official told the GDN that hundreds of houses in all five governorates were almost ready or nearing completion, but added that many were still awaiting the addition of electricity, sewer systems or other infrastructure.

"We have housing projects in all five governorates," the official said. "We have about 530 in the Northern Governorate alone.

"A lot of them are awaiting infrastructure or sewer systems and electricity to be set up.

"We expect to have most of them ready to be handed over by the end of the year."

They include housing projects in Zallaq, Bilad Al Qadeem and Salmabad.

"We have over 200 houses in Zallaq which are awaiting sewer systems," the official said.

"In Bilad Al Qadeem, they're almost complete but need electricity and sewer systems.

"The ones near Qala'at Al Bahrain (Bahrain Fort) are done, but need sewer systems and in Budaiya there's between 21 to 24 houses that need electricity.

"In Salmabad, Jaw, Askar and Al Door we are awaiting infrastructure and in Sanad and Howrat Sanad both infrastructure and services."

There are also various other housing projects across the country currently under construction.

"In Riffa we have over 200 houses, in Madinat Hamad over 100, approximately 300 units in Hamala and more than 200 in Nabih Saleh," the official added.

The GDN reported on Saturday that more than 40,000 government homes will be built in Bahrain within the next eight years.

They will be divided among seven new towns across the country, some of which are under construction or in the planning stages.

The Northern Town will have 15,161 homes, the Eastern Hidd Town will consist of 4,526, while 5,000 houses will be built in the Eastern Sitra Town along with 5,500 in the Southern Town and 3,500 in the New Salmabad Town.
