
PHILADELPHIA (CBS) – In Campaign 2014, voters will head to the polls tomorrow in Pennsylvania.

They’ll choose a Democratic candidate for governor to go up against Governor Tom Corbett in the Fall.

Pounding the pavement in Philadelphia.

Katie McGinty, Allyson Schwartz, Rob McCord, Tom Wolf – united in their opposition to incumbent Republican Governor Tom Corbett – divided on who should take him on.

But from adding jobs through infrastructure to medical marijuana decriminalization, to overhauling education reform – it’s the similarities that are striking.

“One thing I do well is bring Republicans and Democrats together,” says McGinty.

“People are saying there’s something bolder and more energetic, not just about our policy positions, the higher driller’s tax, et cetera, but out approach,” says McCord.

“What sets me apart is my experience, my background, which is very different,” says Wolf.

“This election is about who brings the experience, who really will get things done in Harrisburg,” says Schwartz.

If it all sounds familiar, political policy expert Ellen Kaplan says you’re right.

“They are very similar,” says Kaplan.

The biggest difference her Independent watchdog found drastically different tax rates on natural gas drilling which will lead to public school funding.

“McCord wants a 10 percent severance tax. McGinty wants a reasonable tax and Allyson Schwartz and Tom Wolf want a 5 percent tax,” says Kaplam.

But for the real last minute scoop, Kaplan says it’s more about your favorite style over substance.

“All of them say I’m not going to be Tom Corbett,” she says.

When it comes to primary voting for local and state elections Philadelphia gets a bad rap for not showing up.

“In Philadelphia County, we haven’t had a wonderful record for turnout,” says Kaplan.

Political Policy Expert Ellen Kaplan says only 16 percent of the electorate in Philadelphia County came to vote in 2010 and that’s when there was an open seat for Governor.

It’s a question that brought a lot apathy.

“A lot of people don’t think their opinions matter,” a voter said.

“With the lack of action in Harrisburg and Washington, people might be a little disillusioned with politics,” voter Ben Schwartz says.

Kaplan says that’s not so unusual, but potential voters need to realize how connected Harrisburg is to Philadelphia.

“Harrisburg controls our schools, Harrisburg controls the parking authority, Harrisburg controls the board who oversees Philadelphia’s budget,” says Kaplan.

And she’s hoping potential voters realize that quickly.

“We strongly encourage people to come out to vote, it’s just unfortunate the turnout has not been terrific,” says Kaplan.

©2014 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.
