
Note: An earlier version of this story inaccurately summarized the circumstances surrounding the numbers required for Question 1 to pass or fail. That information has been corrected below.

Wellesley’s voters will head to the polls Tuesday and will decide on both the future of the Tolles-Parsons Senior Center project and the direction of the public schools.

Town Meeting last month overwhelmingly approved the borrowing of over $1.3 million to purchase the land adjacent to the proposed senior center site on Washington Street, and also approved a $3.345 million tax override to fund the schools’ budget, including an expansion to full day kindergarten that was initially backed by what teachers called unclear or inexact data.

However, a group of opponents collected enough signatures to force the land-purchase issue to a town-wide vote, instead of allowing it to be settled by Town Meeting. Twenty percent of the electorate would need to turn out to the polls and cast a vote on the senior center question, and a majority would need to reject the land purchase in order for the deal to be nullified.

Town Clerk Kathy Nagle said that a minimum of 3,733 voters would need to vote in the negative on the referendum question and be in the majority on that question in order for the land purchase to be cancelled. A majority of voters could reject the purchase, but if the needed 20 percent don't vote "no" and make up the majority on that issue then the purchase of 494 Washington St. would be approved by default, she said.

"Yes can prevail in two instances," Nagle said in an e-mail to the Townsman. "There are less that 3,733 NO votes, then the question is deemed to support the action of Town Meeting to purchase the land [or] there are at least 3,733 no votes, but the YES votes are in the majority."

According to town officials, the purchase of the land became necessary after the most recent project proposal—with satellite parking across the street at the police station—did not gain a needed supermajority Planning Board vote to proceed.

Opponents of the purchase claim that the purchase price--$384,000 above the town’s appraised value—is too high and that the proposed site on Washington Street near Kingsbury Street is inadequate for a senior center.

An override, which is likely to be the first of several in the coming years, was also approved by Town Meeting but will need the backing of voters before residents see a change in their tax bills. Proponents of the override have said that the impact would be only 84 cents per day on the median tax bill.

Page 2 of 2 - Opponents of the tax hike have been critical of elements of the proposed school budget elements that it would support, including full-day kindergarten and the purchase of iPads to support the expansion of a pilot program that launched this year in the fifth grade. According to school officials, nearly half of the override figure is needed to support level funding of services.

School administrators have published a “gap list” that includes teacher and administrative layoffs that would occur if the override does not pass.

Polls open at 7 a.m. and will be open until 8 p.m. Tuesday night for voters to voice their opinions on the override and senior center land purchase.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
