
Depending on the crowd you run with, the phrase “performance art" has a variety of associations, pretension and inaccessibility often being among them.  But these descriptors don’t hold up for Grandma Sparrow, an oddball performance art-meets-music show that held court  this weekend at The Pinhook for one night and one afternoon set.

Mountain Man’s Alexandra Sauser-Monnig opened both sets. At first, the pairing seemed odd, but it worked perfectly. Sauser-Monnig’s soft, lilting voice floated through old country songs and mountain ballads, creating a calm that helped settle the audience before Grandma Sparrow took flight.

Westerlund played Grandma Sparrow and a revolving cast of other characters, all from the fictitious town of Piddletractor. Durham four-piece Canine Heart Sounds—which includes Westerlund's brother, Dan—accompanied him. On the record, Westerlund benefits from having Richmond's entire Spacebomb Orchestra at his disposal, but the smaller backing band offered tight accompaniment in every respect, allowing Westerlund leeway to hop about the room and get as wacky as he wanted.

It's too bad that neither show was full. The Pinhook was at less than half-capacity on Saturday night, and Sunday’s crowd was even smaller. It was a busy weekend across the Triangle, but perhaps folks were deterred by some sort of false sense of inaccessibility, some notion that the Grandma Sparrow act would be too bizarre to be any good. And yes, it was weird, but it was even more fun. I spent far more time laughing and being entertained than scratching my head.

Performance art doesn’t have to be something exclusive, snooty or pretentious. As Grandma Sparrow suggested, it can be joyful, fun and engaging for the performers and attendees alike.

Comments that are not contributing to the conversation will be removed.

Comments that include ad hominem attacks will also be removed.

Please do not copy and paste the full text of a press release.

To create paragraphs in your comment, type <p> at the start of a paragraph and </p> at the end of each paragraph.

To create bold text, type <b>bolded text</b> (please note the closing tag, </b>).

To create italicized text, type <i>italicized text</i> (please note the closing tag, </i>).

Proper web addresses will automatically become links.

And their burgers are pretty good, too.

It's always good to hear from you, Delta Rae Fan No. 1. We'll be writing about FarmAid.
