
Amid the jostling for positions in Narendra Modi's government, former spooks are also eyeing key roles.

If former Intelligence Bureau chief Ajit Doval made an appearance at BJP president Rajnath Singh's house, ex-RAW head Sanjeev Tripathi was active at the party head office on Ashoka Road.

Doval is widely tipped to be in the race to become the next National Security Advisor.

Tripathi had joined the BJP before the general elections.

Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi does not believe in superstition, but the BJP president Rajnath Singh is learnt to be consulting astrologers to find an auspicious day for the oath-taking ceremony.

Modi overlooked the stars when he filed his nominations from Varanasi during "Bhadra Kaal", which is not considered auspicious by Hindus.

Western Army commander Lt. Gen. Philip Campose is likely to be the new vice chief.

He will replace Lt. Gen. Dalbir Singh, who was named the next Chief of Army Staff.

The new government will also have to name the naval vice chief, a post lying vacant after Admiral R.K. Dhowan was appointed the chief of naval staff.

While the Congress top brass is busy mulling the causes for its humiliating defeat, former minister K.H. Muniyappa wants to be deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha, a position that goes to the Opposition.

Muniyappa's supporters claim he won from Kolar seat for a record seventh consecutive term.

Only two other party leaders - Kamal Nath and Mullapalli Ramchandran - have won Lok Sabha seats more times than Muniyappa.

They claim Muniyappa, a member of a Scheduled Caste and a lawyer, is the best candidate for the post.

Many eyebrows were raised on seeing 65-year-old senior judge Balbir Singh Chauhan presiding over the summer vacation bench of the Supreme Court since junior judges are normally assigned to vacation benches.

It was all the more surprising as Chauhan is set to retire on July 1, a day after the court reopens following the one-and-half month summer vacation.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
