
Try it before you buy it.

Eugene City Manager Jon Ruiz is recommending that the City Council approve a 12-month trial of bike lanes on a busy stretch of Willamette Street before making permanent changes.

Adding bike lanes to Willamette Street, between 24th and 29th avenues, is one of three design options for the commercial corridor.

For the test, the city would temporarily restripe the street, replacing the present four-lane configuration with one vehicle travel lane in each direction, a center turn lane and bicycle lanes on both sides of the street.

City project consultants last fall recommended the bike lane design, saying it would reduce speeding, improve safety and allow motorists to make safer left turns.

The bike lanes also would enhance pedestrian and bicyclist safety and draw people to the corridor who previously avoided it, the consultants said.

The public tonight will have a chance to share its views with the City Council about the bike lane test and the three design options.

The council is scheduled to vote on the matter on the evening of May 27.

In a written report to the City Council for tonight’s meeting, city Transportation Planning Engineer Chris Henry said a test would determine if the consultants’ predictions are accurate and reveal any unintended consequences.

A test also would “provide a real experience of a street reconfiguration for people driving cars,” Henry wrote.

Another design option would keep the present four-lane configuration. The other would have two vehicle travel lanes, a center turn lane, and 13-foot-wide sidewalks to accommodate bicyclists and pedestrians.

A redesign of Willamette Street is being considered because the city is preparing to repave the segment by 2018 and changes to the street could be made with that work.

The three designs come from the South Willamette Street Improvement Plan, a nearly two-year study intended to make the eight-block segment a vibrant urban corridor accessible by bicycle, foot, car and bus while retaining the commercial district’s vitality.

The Eugene City Council will hear public comment on the proposed Willamette Street design options. City Manager Jon Ruiz is recommending that the council approve a 12-month trial of the bike lane design.
