
The Labour Party is making mischief from a survey of local authorities that shows 750,000 street lights  in 81 council areas have been turned off or set to a lower brightness during the night or  early morning.

Hilary Benn, the Shadow Communities Secretary, said it was ‘striking’ that 27 per cent of these lights  are in Conservative council areas compared with 7 per cent in Labour ones.

Last week in the Commons, Benn tabled questions seeking to link the figures with any rise in the number of burglaries.

What a short memory this former minister has. In 2007, when Benn was Environment Secretary, he launched the Carbon Trust Standard.

The following year, Benn launched the Carbon Reduction Commitment, which resulted in councils cutting emissions by dimming or switching off street lights.

But it wasn’t just Benn who wanted to dim down. In June 2009, the Commons was told that the Department for Energy and Climate Change was working to ‘include street lighting in the Carbon Reduction Commitment to provide an incentive for local authorities to improve the energy efficiency of street lights’.

And who was Energy And Climate Change Secretary back then? None other than Red Ed Miliband, the Labour leader.

The  Portsmouth South MP Mike Hancock had the Lib Dem Whip removed after a  leaked report by a QC found ‘compelling prima facie evidence of serious  and unwanted sexual behaviour’ with a registered vulnerable adult who  had contacted Hancock for help with a housing issue.

He  now serves as an independent MP as well as an independent councillor in  Portsmouth, where he has been a council member for the past 20 years.

Yet the Lib Dems don’t seem to have distanced themselves very far from Hancock.

Not  only have they failed to put up a candidate against him in this week’s  council elections, but the minuscule imprint on the bottom of a letter  to his council constituents shows it was printed by the Lib Dems’ very  own printing company.

You can’t fault  a backbench MP for trying. With an eye on his 1,328 majority, Brighton Kemptown Tory MP Simon Kirby tabled  a Parliamentary question asking Helen Grant, the Minister for Women and Equalities, ‘if she will bring forward proposals to relocate (a) staff and (b) offices of her Department to Brighton’. The answer? No.

Labour is using the office of  a Tube-striking trade union to campaign for this week’s elections. Walkden House, the Transport Salaried Staffs’ Association’s HQ in Central London, has been mobilised for phone canvassing in key seats.

TSSA leader Manuel Cortes said this year that, due to strikes, ‘over 70 per cent of the normal service is at a standstill’. The union has donated more than £250,000 to Labour, which refuses to condemn the Tube stoppages, despite analysis saying they cost London up to £150 million.

No  mention, of course, of the daft decisions made by many Lib Dem  councils, such as Eastleigh — which is paying its staff up to £800 each  because of the lack of parking spaces at its new £12 million HQ.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
