
The lady at “Tuesday Market” in Abha, Asir region, was selling home-made yogurt at a “productive families" stand.

I bought a two-litter container, for ten riyals, and handed her fifty. It seems I was her first customer that day, even though it was afternoon, because she didn’t have enough change. I said it was fine with me, she could keep the change.

But, she adamantly refused, saying it was too much, and called on her neighboring sellers to get my forty. To help solve the problem, I offered to buy more of her yogurt, but she again objected. “This is fresh food, If you don’t need it don’t buy it,” she advised. “Thanks anyway, I got your change now!” and handed me back my money.

This part of the open-air market, dedicated to home made products, is part of the government plan to help underprivileged families be more productive.

The idea is to open venues for work, instead of lines for charity. The Abha municipality, in cooperation with concerned civic institutions under the Ministry of Social Affairs, are providing training and small loans to productive families, as well as free venues to sell their products.

I visited similar projects in the Qassim region, two years ago. A lady told me that she managed in a couple of years to buy a small house by selling local sweets called “calija” to hotels and government agencies, as well as in her stand. I believe her. It was the most delicious calija I have ever tested.

Other women were selling artistic souvenirs, dresses and home furniture. A few girls decided to open a cafe for women. The sweets and cakes were first class. Most were classic local food, but some were their own creation.

The organizers of the Tourism Media Caravan (Saudi Commission of Tourism and Antiquity) took us, Saudi press opinion writers, to visit another pioneer social project.

In the village of Bahat Rabia, they decided that the young needed to learn the virtues of volunteering. Kids are trained to paint, maintain and clean up schools, mosques and public spaces.

It is amazing how individual and group initiatives can make a difference. During our tour we visited a number of castles, historical palaces and museums that were initiated and maintained by enthusiasts.

Ibn Hamsan Museum, in Khamis Mushayt, for example, was built over thirty years by an antique collector. He managed to turn his project into a money-making business, by adding a cultural restaurant, a cafe and an events hall.

Government agencies help by taking their visitors for tours and dining there. It is not yet a lucrative business, but at least Ibn Hamsan could cover his expenses.

In Bani Alma region, locals came together to turn a historic castle and village into a tourist attraction. Other, smaller museums and palaces were set up in towns and villages all over the region.

Saudi Commission for Tourism and Antiques, in coordination with local municipalities, are helping in rehabilitating and providing services to historic areas and places, such as Alnamas Museum in Alasbali Palace and Tharaban Palace, in Alnamas city; and Musmar Castle in Rijal Almaa.

All we need, then, is more public awareness programs about the cultural and economic benefits of tourism. With state, guidance, support and encouragement, enthusiastic people will do wonders.

Lost opportunities!

Management is the secret!

“I often wonder seeing the difference between Saudi Arabia and other Middle East countries. Communism is not to be blamed in the case of Aden, seeing the difference between the progress China has made compared to Russia and ex-Soviet Union republics.

I believe it all boils down to policies, freedom of investment, tolerance, equality and work ethics, and by accepting foreigners’ contributions and cultivating them.

Rectifying Shortcomings!

- We call on all our readers and visitors to stay away from comments that are offensive or meaningful to a person or entity in any way.
