
In addition to the congressional and governor's race, four Council seats are up and there are three propositions. Of the four even-numbered Council seats, only two are competitive in District 2 and 6 - both open seats. When Kevin Faulconer moved from District 2 into the Mayor's office, Republican Lori Zapf - the incumbent in District 6 - chose to run for re-election in District 2. This race is between Zapf and Sarah Boot, Labor's candidate.

In District 6, there are five candidates: Republican Chris Cate figures to make the runoff to oppose either Carol Kim or Mitz Lee, both Democrats. Were a Democrat to win just one of these two seats, Democrats will have a supermajority on the Council. These two races may bring out voters in those two districts.

Propositions B and C may also draw voters. These two propositions are to approve and implement an updated Barrio Logan community plan which has spawned a huge fight between Business and Labor. The Council approved a plan that carves out a 5 block area that moves the shipyard industry from residents who claim toxic pollutants from the shipyards need to be separated from housing. The plan also calls for additional affordable housing. Opponents, namely Business, see this move as the first step toward elimination of the last shipyard on the west coast and threatens jobs at a time when the Pacific fleet is expanding.

The third proposition, A, updates the City Charter to bring election dates and deadlines in line with state and federal deadlines in order to certify election results and provide ample time for overseas and military ballots to be counted and certified. And one other competitive race: District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis, for the first time, is in a fight with challenger Bob Brewer and Terri Wyatt.

The registrar expects turnout to be in the high 30's; as of three days ago, only 209 people voted at the registrar's office, 854 mail ballots were sent out and 68,000 have been returned. Monday was the last day to register to vote. The deadline to apply for a mail ballot is May 27th. You can vote at the registrar's office Monday through Friday until 5pm and the Saturday before the election on May 31st.
