
Euphemisms are sometimes amusing; but quite helpful. Dr Knox Chitiyo and Dr Steve Kibble have chosen the innocuous title "Zimbabwe's International Re-engagement. The Long Haul to Recovery" for their well-researched Chatham House report about the failure of sanctions on Zimbabwe and the U turn that resulted in the lifting of most sanctions and inviting President Mugabe to the EU-Africa summit last month. The president boycotted the summit. Zimbabwe's victory in the long struggle against coercion came as a result of several factors. Solidarity by fellow African states was crucial. It signaled an increasing African Union self-confidence and refusal to be bullied. It was also evident in solidarity with President Al Bashir and President Kenyatta in the face of ICC onslaught. The second factor was pinpointed by the authors of the report in the lobbying by Western companies that are losing ground and will continue to miss opportunities "if Zimbabwe pursues a "Look East" alternative". To their credit the objective authors cited the fact that the land revolution was "highly politicised, messy and often violent "but it did change the balance of agrarian ownership in " favour of the black majority"

The report highlights some less publicised information like the US congress's allocation of $20 million for assistance related to land reform in Zimbabwe and calls for more engagement and the lifting of the last remaining sanctions. Its recommendations include rejoining the Commonwealth and taking steps to improve the living standards, set up plans to re-engage the West and connect with the Diaspora. When the report was presented at Chatham House event Chaired by Alex Vines (head of the Africa Department) one investor voiced dissatisfaction with government plans and promises. Since businesses have played a role in the West's U turn, keeping them on board would be a wise policy. The lesson of the failure of sanctions on Zimbabwe should resonate in the Sudan which is still facing sanctions and waiting for a Western U turn. It will come. The main obstacle is our categorisation as a part of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the feverish efforts of the Israel lobby in the US to maintain the sanctions; but the Lobby has suffered several setbacks and more could follow.
