
Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh Governor ESL Narasimhan authorised expenditure funds of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states here on Sunday, for a period of four months from June 2, 2014.

The decision was taken at a high level meeting with senior officials on the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh held at the Raj Bhavan here, according to a press communique from the press secretary to the Governor.

The budget details for Andhra Pradesh is Rs 34,595 crore with a revenue budget of Rs 28,626 crore and a capital budget of Rs 3,882 crore.

Telangana state would receive Rs 26,516 crore with a revenue budget of Rs 21,295 crore and a capital budget of Rs 3,046 crore.

Chief Secretary PK Mohanty informed the Governor that under Schedule 10, another 38 institutions would be added in addition to 107 institutions and a proposal would be sent to the Centre.

Principal Secretary for Irrigation Nagi Reddy informed that under the Andhra Pradesh Re-organisation Act, the irrigation department has noticed discrepancies related to the Krishna River Management Board and 16 other projects which are currently under construction on Krishna and Godavari basins which were not mentioned in the Schedule IX.

The Governor has accepted the proposal to forward it to the Centre to amend the Act.

The Chief Secretary has informed that the bifurcation of files were completed and the process of digitalisation has also been completed, besides bifurcation of movable, immovable assets and vehicles.

All committees constituted for the bifurcation process have submitted their recommendations and their reports would be sent to the Centre, he said.

In this context, the Chief Secretary said that new advisory and apex committees of the re-organisation of the state would be re-constituted.

The Governor also approved a common admission procedure and continuation of various quotas in the higher educational institutions for the next 10 years beginning from June 2, 2014, the press communique said.

Advisors to the Governor, Special Chief Secretaries SP Tucker, SK Sinha, Pradeep Chandra, N Ramesh Kumar, Principal Secretaries Ajay Kalam, PV Ramesh, Ramakrishna Rao, Siva Sankar and other senior officers attended the meeting.
