
THE master of political flip flops performed another yesterday when he opted to remain in the LNP shortly after suggesting he was thinking of sitting as an independent.

With colleagues openly calling for him to commit or quit, Member for Stafford Chris Davis said many of his constituents had urged him to become an independent.

But just a few hours later at a heated LNP party room meeting, Dr Davis apologised for his outspoken behaviour of recent weeks and pledged his allegiance to the party.

“He’s apologised to the party for the grief he’s caused,” said Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney.

Hours earlier Cabinet ministers lined up to criticise Dr Davis’s decision to ­publicly attack government policies.

Housing Minister Tim Mander accused him of “crying wolf” and Water Minister Mark McArdle urged him to reconsider his LNP membership.

Dr Davis said he received “a lot of feedback” from his party room colleagues about his recent comments about the doctors’ pay dispute, the Crime and Misconduct Commission reforms and political donors.

“I certainly acknowledged any distress my comments may have caused,” he said.

He said no one had suggested he stop speaking out, only that he do it in the party room rather than in public.

“It’s the process that’s been challenged, with me speaking outside of the party room,” said Dr Davis, who fronted the media after the meeting with Leader of the House Ray Stevens in tow.

Mr Seeney said Dr Davis’s outbursts had caused political damage to the LNP that had angered many members of Parliament.

“People who’ve been around politics for a long time understand the importance of government staying on ­message, and understand the ­extent to which the government has been taken off message by a number of our own people,” he said.

Dr Davis has already paid a high price for speaking out, after being sacked as Assistant Health Minister last week.

The Premier’s move to ­dismiss him followed Dr Davis’s support for doctors during their pay dispute with the Government, and then his polling of his electorate on controversial changes to the CMC.

Despite the poll finding 73 per cent were opposed to key changes, Dr Davis voted in favour of the legislation.

He denied the move had lost him any support in his electorate.

“Not a single person contacting my office has asked me to resign,” Dr Davis said.

Mr Seeney indicated it may be the last time Dr Davis would be afforded such a political lifeline.

“I think everybody now understands how a political party should operate,” he said.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
