
May 20, 2014, 7 a.m.

PREMIER Will Hodgman is refusing to outline how health services will be funded if he cannot convince Canberra to reinstate $1.7 billion in funding set to go over 10 years.

PREMIER Will Hodgman  is refusing to outline how  health services will be  funded if he cannot convince  Canberra to reinstate  $1.7 billion in funding set to  go over 10 years.

Premier Will Hodgman is refusing to outline how health services will be funded if he cannot convince Canberra to reinstate $1.7 billion in funding set to go over 10 years.

He has less than six weeks  to change the federal  government's mind before  $27 million is cut this coming  financial year, or the  equivalent of 197 beds over  four years.

"It's my job to put a strong  case to Canberra as to why  that is unreasonable, why  that is unsustainable," Mr  Hodgman said yesterday.

Mr Hodgman would not  say if cuts to services or  further savings would be  found if the Commonwealth  does not budge.

"It's a big if," he said  yesterday.

The Prime Minister has  rejected the states' demand  for an emergency Council of  Australian Governments  meeting, but Mr Hodgman  said he would still work  with his federal colleagues.

"We expect that there will  be ongoing discussions with  our federal colleagues, including  the Prime Minister,"  Mr Hodgman said.

"It's my job to understand  the issue ... and to put a  case to Canberra as to why  we are disadvantaged, in  my view unfairly, in a way  that will put our health  system in an unsustainable  position and that's exactly  what I'll do."

The state opposition has  called on the state government  to also detail the impact  of looming shortfalls in  education funding beyond  2017.

Last week, Labor estimated  abandoning previous  funding agreements on  health and education would  cost Tasmania $1.6 billion  combined over 10 years.

"That figure was initially  rubbished by Will Hodgman  who has since revealed a  $1.7 billion black hole in  health alone," Deputy Opposition  Leader Michelle  O'Byrne said.
