
In a letter sent Friday, Gov. Perry accused President Obama of “waging a war on coal [and] kicking the can down the road on the Keystone XL pipeline."

Gov. Rick Perry has reminded President Obama – again – that he is no fan of his energy policies.

In addition, Perry suggested that Washington should follow Texas’ lead in spurring energy production.

In his letter, Perry took aim at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s mercury and air toxics standards and cross-state air pollution rule  for their collective role in the retirement of coal plants, which he says threatens U.S. energy reliability and jobs.

The mercury rule, set to take effect in 2015, requires plants to upgrade technology to limit mercury and other types of toxins — such as arsenic, acid gas, nickel, selenium and cyanide — that power plants belch into the air. The cross-state air pollution rule, reinstated by the U.S. Supreme Court last month , requires Texas and 26 other "upwind" states in the South, Midwest and Appalachia to reduce some of their emissions that contribute to air pollution in East Coast states like New York.

The EPA says those rules will protect public health and slash long-run health care costs.

The standards appear to be speeding up the retirement of aging coal units , which were already under threat by changing economics — mainly the infusion into the market of cheap, abundant natural gas. Perry, whose administration has long fought the rules, wrote that the retirements are bad for the economy and for the reliability of the nation’s energy grid.

In recent weeks, Congress has debated legislation that would force Obama to make a decision but has struggled to reach a compromise.

Perry also called on Obama to take steps to open up liquefied natural gas exports and bolster oil and gas production on federal lands.

Meanwhile, a recent state-sponsored report found that airborne releases of volatile organic compounds in South Texas’ Eagle Ford Shale could increase 281 percent during the peak ozone season compared with 2012 emissions.
