
The Fifth Republican President of Zambia Michael Sata is not one that will enjoy a legacy of honesty – and a new document unearthed from his past has exposed these outrageous double standards.

Aside from overseeing a steep rise in violence (including cadres that drive cars into opposition protesters ), unleashing militias to attack civil society groups inside a house of worship , and making the kwacha the worst performing currency in Africa , President Sata has also often failed to live up to his words.

Probably the most outrageous example of the President’s double standards is his reliance on the brutality of the Public Order Act, a colonial-era law of vague definition that is regularly abused to harass, repress, threaten, and prevent any sort of regular democratic existence by the opposition.

Most recently it was used to crack down against Edith Nawakwi, but every opposition leader has suffered an arrest as a result of this abusive Act.

Of course when President Sata himself was in the opposition, he railed against the Public Order Act, calling it “evil” and promising to seek its immediate repeal once elected president. Not only did he lie and break this promise, he became the most prolific abuser of the Public Order Act.

A new document unearthed from Sata’s past shows the extent of this hypocrisy and double standards. Back in 1996, when Sata served as National Secretary for the Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD) party under President Frederick Chiluba, he even wrote a letter to the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party to inform them of a Supreme Court ruling which found that the Public Order Act was unconstitutional.

To this day, parties like the UPND have been repeatedly denied permits to hold their rallies, while Sata has used the Public Order Act to prevent MMD from campaigning in by-elections.

But as this document shows, President Sata knew full well back in 1996 that this law was unconstitutional, and continues to be aware that by invoking this Act he is violating the constitution, representing grounds for impeachment.

In recent years, a vast consensus of organisations including the Council of Churches of Zambia (CCZ), Law Association of Zambia (LAZ), and Oasis Forum have condemned the Patriotic Front government for its abuse of the Public Order Act.
