
Growing Wellington’s education market is a key focus for the Capital, which aims to boost its share of the lucrative international market with a Mayoral-led mission to China and Japan.

Thirty organisations, including businesses and education providers, will join a delegation to China and Japan led by Wellington Mayor Celia Wade-Brown and Councillor Jo Coughlan, Chair of Council’s Economic Growth and Arts Committee, which departs this week.

“I’m really looking forward to renewing the formal local government ties and opening the door for Wellington businesses to create partnerships in China and Japan,” says Mayor Wade-Brown.

“Achieving business success in Asia is helped by forming strong connections. Political leadership is important in helping open doors for our businesses. This delegation will strengthen existing relationships with partners and customers in China and Japan, as well as establishing new relationships that will result in business growth.

“This year’s delegation has a significant focus on the education sector, in which Wellington is actively growing the market share of international students in New Zealand,” she says.

China is Wellington’s largest international student market, and Japan is Wellington’s third largest international student market – with enrolments in the region growing 25% since 2007.

“Many of our business partners on the delegation are market-ready with products and services, and Council is eager to share the contacts, opportunities and knowledge with other local businesses – many of which we hope will join us on future delegations,” said Cr Coughlan.

Organisations joining this trip, which departs on May 22, include Gibson Group, Victoria University, ANZ Bank, Computer Power Plus, Carrickmore, The Formary, NZ Post, Weltec, Wellington International Airport Ltd and ACG Yoobee School of Design.

A number of local secondary schools, including Wellington College, Wellington Girls’, Queen Margaret’s, Wellington High and Hutt Valley High have also signed up for the delegation.
