
Participate in Share Chat.

Moscow (Alliance News) - Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered all troops stationed along the border with Ukraine to withdraw, the Kremlin said Monday.

Moscow had previously issued such orders, but NATO said the withdrawals have not happened.

The Kremlin said spring training had been completed in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions and the units would return to their barracks.

Ukraine and the West have claimed that Russia has been massing tens of thousands of soldiers along the border, raising fears of an invasion in Kiev and prompting accusations from the West that the troops would further destabilize Ukraine as its pro-Western government faces unrest from pro-Russian separatists.

Russia has justified the presence of the troops as part of maintaining Russia's and the Russian people's own security.

The Kremlin statement was issued as Ukraine heads into presidential elections this weekend. A separatist leader in the east vowed Monday to ignore it and demanded the resignation of the current government in Kiev.

"We believe that the May 25 presidential election is not legitimate," Pavel Gubarev, the self-declared "people's governor" of Donetsk, told Russia's Rossia 24 state television. "Naturally, we won't recognize this election."

Gubarev said it was illegal to carry out elections in the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic and the neighboring Luhansk People's Republic and he doubts that the vote will take place.

Separatist leaders in those regions declared independence from Ukraine after holding referendums May 11, which Ukraine and the West called illegal.

Gubarev stressed there was no chance for a dialogue with the current government of Ukraine, which he called a foreign, neighbouring state.

"For a dialogue, the Kiev junta must resign and be replaced by a government of honest, responsible people," he said.

The Ukrainian government has initiated so-called round table talks about reconciliation, but the separatists have refused to participate, saying Kiev first needs to withdraw its forces from their regions.

Putin said Monday that he welcomes first contacts between Kiev and the separatists, the Interfax news agency reported, citing his office. It was not clear what contacts Putin meant.

Gubarev said in the TV interview that there have been a few attempts at "reaching agreements" with Kiev but that they had been aborted.

Meanwhile, low-intensity fighting continued in the Donetsk region. Separatists said they took back two roadblocks from government troops in a pre-dawn operation Monday south of the rebel-held city of Sloviansk, Russia's Interfax news agency reported.

The Ukrainian military did not immediately comment on the report. The Defence Ministry said late Sunday that its forces captured a number of fighters in the same region, including people claiming to be journalists and Russian citizens who had been filming a rebel attack.

The Russian Foreign Ministry on Monday angrily demanded the release of two journalists who it identified as reporters for the Kremlin-friendly lifenews TV channel.

Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov asked the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe to get them released, the ministry said.

Pro-Russian militants in Solviansk have in the past detained numerous journalists, and some Ukrainian reporters are still believed to be in their hands.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
