
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Branson Firefighters use a truck to hoist an injured construction worker from a roof where several trusses collapsed Monday afternoon. Firefighters were then able to use a rope system to lower the injured man to the ground where he was treated on scene by paramedics from Taney County Ambulance District and transported to the hospital.

Following the collapse of several roof trusses, Branson firefighters rescued a construction worker Monday afternoon.

The 25-year-old man suffered minor injuries.

Branson Fire Chief Ted Martin said, in a news release, that gusting south winds may have contributed to the collapse.

At 1:20 p.m. Monday, firefighters were called to the City of Branson's Cooper Creek Wastwater Plant after reports that a man had been injured and was possibly trapped under roof trusses. The building was under construction.

Fire crews were able to free the man from under the truss system and then secure him to a basket and — using a ladder truck — hoist the man from the roof top, the release said.

A rope system was then used to lower the man to the ground. The man, whose name has not yet been released, was taken by ambulance to a local hospital.

According to the release, the fire department called on the city's engineering and utilities department to provide information about the building design so the rescue could be performed.

"The fire crews did a spectacular job assessing the scene, rigging the hoisting system on Truck 2, and getting the man lowered safety from the roof to the Paramedics," Martin said, in a news release.

Martin added that winds, which had averaged 10-12 mph, had gust to nearly 30 mph before noon.

"The building under construction is actually owned by Taney County and sits on land leased from the City of Branson," he said, in the release. "This facility will be a great asset once completed, to manage bio solids for each of the participating communities in Taney County."
