
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

OSLO, May 19 (Reuters) - Norway is pledging $63 million to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis in South Sudan, the Norwegian government said on Monday, amid expectations the conflict in the world's youngest nation to worsen in the months ahead.

The Nordic country, one of South Sudan's main Western sponsors together with the United States and Britain, is hosting an international conference to raise humanitarian funds for South Sudan on May 19-20 in Oslo.

Violence broke out last December, pitting President Salva Kiir's Dinka people against the Nuer of his former deputy, Riek Machar, whom the president sacked in July 2013.

"The crisis is expected to escalate significantly in the months ahead. The Norwegian Government is therefore allocating a further $63 million to humanitarian efforts in South Sudan," said Norwegian Foreign Minister Boerge Brende.

"By making this substantial contribution, Norway is sending a clear signal about the gravity of the situation," he said in a statement. The sum comes in addition to the $17 million Oslo has pledged in emergency aid to South Sudan this year.

The United Nations has now increased the funding requirement for humanitarian assistance from $1.3 billion to $1.8 billion. So far, donors have provided $590 million.

South Sudan became independent from Sudan in 2011. The fighting has curbed oil production, vital for its economy.

Norway said its money would be distributed via humanitarian actors on the ground in South Sudan, including United Nations agencies, the International Committee of the Red Cross and non-governmental organisations.

Some of the funds will also be allocated to relief efforts in South Sudan's neighbouring nations, which are hosting a large number of refugees, it said.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
