
MANILA - The Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC) has issued the rules on the construction of a common station for the Metro Manila's two overhead train services.

Under the concession agreement for the P64.9 billion LRT Cavite Extension Project, the winning bidder would have the right to submit an alternative preliminary design of the common station no later than one month after the issuance of notice of award.

The common station will be developed in the vicinity of the existing MRT 3 North Avenue Station along Edsa in Quezon City.

If it will submit an alternative preliminary design of the common station, the winning concessionaire would have two months to prepare the design at its own cost, DOTC said.

The government and the winning bidder would share pro-rate the total cost of the common station.

"The pro-rata sharing of the grantors [government] and the concessionaire is 70 percent and thirty 30 percent respectively. If the bid amount for the common station is P1.8 billion, then the grantors shall cover P1.26 billion while the concessionaire shall cover P540 million," DOTC said.

However, if the winning bidder has not submitted a design, the government should proceed with the public procurement of the common station using the existing design and it will pay for the development of the same.

"The common station shall be completed, installed and handed over by the grantors [government] to the concessionaire no later than 54 months after the signing date," DOTC said.

The project involves the provision of a common station for LRT 1, MRT 3 and eventually MRT 7. Head to head platforms for LRT 1 and MRT 3 with a 147.4-meter elevated walk-a-lator to the proposed MRT 7 at North Avenue will be constructed.

LRT 1 runs from Baclaran to Roosevelt in Quezon City, while the MRT 3 runs from North Avenue in Quezon City to Taft Avenue in Pasay City.

The bidding for the LRT 1 Cavite Extension is scheduled on May 28.

The department earlier announced that it would pursue a single-stage bidding, which means interested groups will submit their qualification documents simultaneously with their technical and financial proposals, thus doing away with a separate pre-qualification phase.  This will cut the bidding process by around two months.

Prospective bidders for the LRT 1 Cavite project include Light Rail Manila Consortium, SMC Infra Resources Inc, Globalvia Inversiones S.A.U., Megawide Construction Corp, MTD Philippines Inc, and DMCI.

This is the second time the government will auction off the project, one of the Aquino administration's public-private partnership (PPP) ventures.

An auction in August last year failed after only one bidder, the Light Rail Manila Consortium, submitted an offer. The DOTC Bids and Awards Committee however turned down the lone bidder’s offer after it contained conditions that the government deemed unacceptable.
