
Kenya: St Georges Boarding Primary will soon get a girls’ dormitory after being the first beneficiary of a property ownership campaign spearheaded by The Property Show aired on KTN every Sunday at 6pm.

The Standard Group entered into a partnership dubbed ‘Your Dreams could come True initiative’ with Elsek and Elsek Group of Companies to ensure that ardent KTN viewers are rewarded with homes and other properties in the next three months.

Elsek and Elsek, a Turkish company, has a group of subsidiaries dealing with modern construction techniques aimed at cutting building costs.

Speaking during the groundbreaking of the dormitory, Elsek and Elsek Chief Executive Officer Osman Erdinc Elsek, who was accompanied by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, said the modern technology will help more people in the middle-class own homes easily.

“Our new construction technology that utilises purely aluminum bars and grills and cabro materials is affordable, time effective and reliable as it can’t rust and is the likely solution to the accommodation problems in the country,” he said. The company will use the above stated materials that were delivered to the school on Thursday evening to build the dormitory that is expected to house 112 girls.

Gilbert arap Bor, the school ’s Board of Governors chairman, said the construction of the dormitory was timely because the institution was experiencing accommodation problems.

“Seventy girls in the boarding section have been relying on iron sheet makeshift dorms so this will be a remedy in quashing the accommodation crisis,” he said. Mr Bor said the school has put emphasis on providing education to children from poor families and depends majorly on charity.

Â “We only allow pupils to board as from Standard Six due to the high demand and we already have 140 boarders in comparison to 280 day scholars. We would want to have at least 60 per cent of these pupils reside in school ,” he said.

Elsek, through a video demo, showed how one can acquire a one-bedroomed house fully installed with furniture, plumbing lines and electricity wiring at only Sh350,000.

“This technology is timely especially during hard economic times when people are struggling to pay rent and mortgage. The structure only needs 35 minutes to be complete,” he said.
