
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The century-old Riverside Bridge in Ozark reopened to traffic in August after more than two years of closure. The bridge has since become a spot of people to access the Finley River, to the dismay of nearby property owners.

OZARK – Property owners near the historic Riverside Bridge want county deputies to keep river-goers off the banks of the Finley River, but the Christian County sheriff says the laws for recreation on the water can be muddy.

Christian County acquired the Riverside Inn property by obtaining a grant. Once the county owned the property, river-goers began using the land as an access point for the Finley River. Property owners who are used to living in a quiet neighborhood now have tourists wandering into their backyards.

No one attended a county commission hearing on recreation at the Riverside Inn land, but some property owners made phone calls and sent letters to commissioners. Eastern District Commissioner Ray Weter called in Sheriff Joey Kyle for an informational meeting.

“We’re looking for a way to control, to some extent, the activities there and, to some extent, to address the security concerns some of the residents in close proximity to that property raised,” Weter said.

Under Missouri law, residents have the right to access the state’s waterways. The county can’t restrict access to Missouri waterways either, but it can restrict parking on county property and restrict the hours that the public may be on county property.

On a Sunday afternoon, Kyle was driving across the Riverside Bridge when he spotted two teenagers tying a rope to one of the beams on the superstructure in order to make a rope swing. Kyle says it’s illegal to loiter on any manmade structure that crosses a river.

“I stopped in the middle of the bridge and escorted a couple of teenage boys off the bridge and cut their rope swing. They didn’t like me cutting their rope; they said a few words to me,” Kyle said.

While you can’t loiter on a bridge, you can travel up and down the river, provided you stay below the high water marks.

Due to a similar situation of property owners attempting to keep visitors from partying near the Linden Dam north of Sparta, Kyle is familiar with the laws that govern access to Missouri rivers.

Kyle says it can be difficult for prosecutors to assert in court that a person trespassed above a river’s high water mark and onto private property.

Under advisement of Christian County Prosecuting Attorney Amy Fite, the sheriff’s office changed its policies for restricting access to the Linden Dam in 2011.

River-goers may now park their cars along nearby Canyon Road and travel under a Missouri 125 bridge to swim below the dam.

The county commission decided to explore the possibility of placing signs on the Riverside Inn property explaining the laws that govern river access.

Western District Commissioner Bill Barnett supports the idea of limiting access to the property overnight.

“I like the idea of putting signs up there and letting people park until a certain time of the night,” Barnett said.

“I always advocate signage telling the public what they can and can’t do, because their first line of defense is ignorance,” Kyle said.

The Riverside Inn property sits inside the city limits of Ozark and falls under the law enforcement jurisdiction of the Ozark Police Department.

The county commission does not have a set date to resume discussion of regulating access to the Finley River from Riverside Road.

First-degree trespassing is a class B misdemeanor. Second-degree trespassing is considered an infraction. Both offenses are considered offenses “of absolute liability,” meaning that a person guilty of trespassing may also be held responsible for any property damage or injuries they caused while trespassing, regardless of intent.
