
ISLAMABAD: To make the government functionaries answerable to standing committees, the Upper House of Parliament will take up an amendment in rules on Monday (today).

The rules of the Senate didn't specify any penalty on the government functionaries if they don't appear in the committees. Under the amendment proposed by Chairman Senate Committee on Interior Senator Talhar Mahmood, the Senate chairman may move a motion against any official who didn't turn up in the meeting to committee on rules of procedure and privileges.

The amendment has been suggested in Rule 192 of rules of Senate. It also enjoins upon the minister concerned to explain reasons to the committee for his absence from the meeting.

On the issue that agenda of the committee should be determined by chairman of the committee in consultation with the minister, the proposed amendment gives edge to the chairman of the committee if no response from the minister for the agenda is received within seven days.

"If there is no response from minister concerned after elapse of seven days from the date of notice for the proposed meeting, the consultation process deemed to have been made", reads the amendment.

The proposed amendment is believed to be the result of a controversy that erupted when officials of the interior ministry didn't show up in the meeting of the standing committee to brief the senators about internal security policy in March this year.

Later, a letter from an official of the ministry proposing that the Senate panel should meet once in two months, surfaced that added fuel to the fire. Chairman of the committee Talha Mahmood wrote a letter to the prime minister about non-cooperative behavour of the interior ministry, headed by PML-N stalwart Ch Nisar Ali Khan.

Despite the letter, officials of interior ministry against failed to appear in the next meeting of the committee, forcing the committee to propose an amendment to make it binding for the government functionaries attend the meeting. The Senate has been constantly ignored by government and even Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif didn't turn up in the proceedings since coming to power.

The House passed an amendment to introduce the 'Zero Hour' for prime minister in a week but it hasn't worked so far as Nawaz has not appeared in the House since this legislation in the last session.

End.

 What do you think about the story ? Leave your comments!

Field marked(*) are mandatory.
