
By the time you read my Column Mr. Narendra Modi and his BJP  would have scored a resounding victory in the Indian Elections. All parties  representing the lower castes have been virtually wiped out and the whole of  India has rallied around two issues Anti-graft, Anti-Scam and Hinduthva and  buried the regional and cast issues. Mr. Modi is not a Brahamin but comes from  the caste which was destined by Hindu religion to be potters of Kumbars.  Jayalalithaa and Mamta Banerji have won the two regions. What is interesting is  that what came to the fore and was discussed in the public domain was  corruption. After my article, ‘What Ails India and Sri Lanka?’ was published one  of those who is considered by many as an Indian expert called me on the phone  and the following dialogue ensued.

He: Hemantha, I read your article on ‘What Ails India and Sri  Lanka?’ with great interest and profit. Though I agree with most of the  sentiments expressed by you, I do not think the problem is so simplistic as you  have tried to convey.

He: For instance, Hemantha, you have stated that the Sri Lankan  people do not carry on the struggle and demonstrations against the Government as  they themselves are corrupt but that the Indians seems to be quite different. It  is not quite so. There is massive corruption in Sri Lanka and the fruits are  enjoyed by a very few people in the government but the masses of the country do  not seem to suffer from these alleged acts of corruption. The infrastructure  development which has taken place in this very short period of time is there for  everyone to see. For instance, the bureaucracy in Sri Lanka is corrupt but their  corruption does not extend to the level of the bureaucrats in India. The  bureaucrats in India have made corruption an accepted way of life and the  ordinary folks there feel that government servants could take bribes for the  services they render.

He: That is a very important question. Most ordinary people in  India are oppressed by the corrupt activities of bureaucracy which are not  carried out by the higher echelons of bureaucracy, but even if someone comes to  repair your telephone or electricity or even the water pump, they expect you to  bribe them. In fact, they expect you to bribe the clerk even before they send  some minor technician to repair the faulty system and when they come they insist  on being paid for what they perform. The cancer of corruption has permeated  throughout the country and has feasted upon the dead cadavers of the Indian  public. The ordinary people suffer day in and day out.

Me: But I could not find any Indian politician or any media  institution supporting your views.

He: Most of them talk of the huge scandal that grappled Indian  politics from the 2G- Scam and the Land allocation scam where Mrs. Gandhi’s only  daughter Priyanka’s husband had used his position to make money from buying land  allocation at a pittance. Likewise, many highly placed politicians in the  Congress are corrupt or there are serious allegations of corruption against  them, but the mass movement is not against the bureaucracy but against the  people in power and the government protects them.

He: The problem is that people come out and protest but nothing  can be done nothing changes.

The remarks that the Indian Bureaucracy is utterly corrupt and  it is the real reason for the ordinary people to rally around Modi’s  anti-corruption drive reminded me of an incident which took place about 10 years  ago, when Mr. G.P.S. Silva was the Chief Justice of this country. G.P.S. Silva  and another were invited to attend the SAARC conference held in New Delhi and  the only request made by G.P.S. Silva was to make arrangements for them to go to  Buddhagaya to worship the Holy Bo Tree.

We also decided to join him and go to Warnasi by train. Our tour  guide had a huge problem at the New Delhi station. He told me that the seats  that had been already allocated to the Chief Justice and another Judge of the  Supreme Court had been allocated to someone else and neither the Station Master  nor the Booking Clerk could provide them with First Class seats. Finally, they  got First Class tickets for the Judges. Then, I asked the tour guide how he had  managed. He said, "I had to bribe the ticketing officer to get these two seats  allocated."

I was furious. I asked him why he did not report the ticketing  clerk, as the Chief Justice of Sri Lanka was a VVIP. The clerk should never have  allocated the seats allocated to another and also should have provided other  seats. He should not have asked for a bribe to allocate seats to his Lordship,  the Chief Justice of Sri Lanka.

He said, "Mr. Warnakulasuriya, if you are living in India and  you go and complain to the Bribery Commissioner or to the Bribery Department or  to the Police, they will come and take the clerk into custody. But the clerk who  has earned a lot of money by allocating seats would pay them a bribe and the  problem would be sorted out."

Then I said, "In India you have a simple solution for bribery;  bribe the Bribery Department."

My friend said, as you know, this would never happen in Sri  Lanka, either at the airport or at the ticketing centre or at the hotel or at  any government institution. People do not openly solicit money. But in India, it  is the reverse. This is why people in India are revolting and that’s why people  in Sri Lanka are not revolting. Though there is corruption, it has still not  become part and parcel of the bureaucratic enrichment process.

Then he said people are fed up with this system and the Congress  Party which encourages corruption. They have waited in silence. Rajiv Gandhi,  who was the prince waiting to inherit the Gandhi-Nehru image, became involved in  the Borfors Scam and the Swedish Government was also involved in it.

I used to read most fondly about Lal Bhadur Shasthri that Lal  Bhadur Shasthri, died without even owning a house, I admired him like Dudley  Senanyake, both of them were honourable Prime Ministers. Mrs Gandhi tried her  best to erase her memories peole had of Shsthri. No one today talks of Shasthri  expect to state that he was a weak Prime Minister. JRJ took a leaf out of Indira  Gandhi Book, his international adversary and both of them strived to erase both  Shsthri’s name and Dudleys respectively name from our memory.

He: You also commented about the free Press and an Independent  Judiciary. Yes, you are correct, It was the free press and fearless Independent  Judiciary which has made possible the people’s revolution without their  resorting to violent means to change the government of India.

Me: But, I said though it may be true that our bureaucracy is  not so corrupt and has not bent so low as the Indian Bureaucracy, yet our people  are the least worried about these activities. Bandaranaike set up the Walter  Thalgodapitiya Commission and Monnekkulama the MP for Kurunegala was convicted  but he contested the seat again and won it handsomely. He had the audacity to  address public meetings and say "what harm if I took a few Rupees from you for  the important services I render, even if you go to a lawyer you have to pay  fees." And the masses shouted "Ape Paga Mantreeta jayawewa" and voted for him.  Similarly the JVP accused and printed posters about Anura Daniels smuggling gold  bars hidden in his rectum but people of Hewaheta overwhelmingly supported him.  Similarly, recently a man charged for masterminding a robbery was elected over  and above the other candidates. This shows clearly that our voters are corrupt  and want the politicians to find corrupt means to help them. Today, even in the  Municipal or a town council, the contracts must be shared with the other  members. For them as much as the administration system introduced by the  British, the AR and the PR are archaic relics of the much maligned Imperialism.

HE In India the media would expose such persons and would  inevitably loose at the elections.

All Rights Reserved.

Solution by Lankacom .
