
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf’s (PTI) Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (K-P) government has approached the Supreme Court (SC) against the Punjab government for blocking the supply of wheat.

An application submitted by the K-P government through Advocate General Latif Yousafzai says that the Punjab government has imposed unannounced restrictions for the past 20 days in regard to the movement of wheat.

The application further states that checkposts have been established, stopping trucks loaded with wheat on routes leading to K-P.

“These restrictions are blocking the flow of wheat to K-P which is not only adversely affecting the transportation, but is also creating a shortage of wheat in the market. This is causing an increase in the rate of the atta (flour) at a time when all experts are unanimous on bumper wheat crop this year, and prices of wheat and flour are unusually decreasing during the harvest” says the application.

The K-P government had requested the top court on Monday, headed by Justice Jawwad S. Khawaja, to issue an appropriate order to all provinces, especially Punjab, to avoid creating any hindrances in the procurement of wheat for its province.

A copy of the K-P government application is available with the Express Tribune.

The bench will resume the hearing of a constitutional plea filed by Jamaat-e-Islami’s (JI) Secretary General Liaquat Baloch tomorrow (Tuesday) regarding the price escalation of flour.

The PTI government has stated that Article 151 of the constitution ensures the free flow of edible commodities through Pakistan.

It also stated that for the year 2013-2014, the federal government has fixed the target of the procurement of wheat to 0.450 million tons for the province of K-P. It has added that the said target of procurement of wheat is to be achieved during the current crop season ending by June 30, 2014.

The application further states that millers in K-P are facing difficulties in transporting wheat which they are purchasing in the markets of Punjab for grinding in their mills. It added that the secretary food and minister food of K-P have approached the federal and Punjab governments via letters to lift the ban, but there has been no result so far.

It has been said that the chief minister had approved the summary on April 18 which increased the support price from Rs 1200 per 40 kilograms (kg) to Rs 1250. The increase of Rs 50 was made to encourage growers, farmers and parties to offer wheat for sale to the food department of K-P and enable it to meet the target.

The application says that “the food department also made necessary arrangements including obtaining a loan of Rs10 billion from the bank of Khyber at 3 months KIBORE + 0.60% pa and dispatched “bardana” to different PRCs and purchase points. The harvesting of wheat started from 15 March, 2014 in Sindh from 15 April, 2014 in parts of Punjab.

K-P estimates of local production are at 1.100 million tones but harvesting has not yet gained momentum, says the application.

It has also been said that the provincial assembly of K-P, on a point of order, also discussed the ban imposed by the Punjab government on movement to the province on May 13, 2014.

On the last date of the hearing of the case regarding the price of flour the SC directed the attorney general for Pakistan as well as all advocate generals to assist it regarding the constitutional consequences of the failure of five executive governments in providing the supply of basic food necessities to the citizens of the country.

The bench also expressed dissatisfaction over unavailability of flour on affordable prices throughout the country.

Your thoughts are regretful and full of hate to KPK people’s who are among the most patriotic of us. Please avoid such comments in the hate of PTI.

Please avoid such comments in the hate of PTI. Your thoughts are full of hate to KPK people’s who are among the most patriotic of us.

Punjab is not banning the supply of wheat but all they are stating that somehow the Per Capita Consumption of wheat in KP is more than 3/4 times than the population of Punjab and Sindh. So there is no rocket science involved in it that either the people in KP are Super Humans or either KP Smugglers who are in the government as well cash in on Wheat and smuggle it out of Pakistan to their Neighboring Brethren of Afghanistan.

Also Punjab government have set aside the Budget for the Procurement of Wheat and KP dont share a Single Penny in Procurement and Silos Construction. Why KP government is acting smart and dont set aside any Money for Wheat procurement but put this burden Squarely on Punjab???.

In 1997, the Shahbaz Sharif led government in the ‪Punjab‬ made taking a bag of flour from Punjab to the NWFP equivalent to smuggling heroin.

For the last 20 days, the same Punjab government has stopped supplying flour to the KPK again. We await the law that elevates transporting flour from one province to another to be elevated to terrorism.

In 1997, the Shahbaz Sharif led government in the ‪#‎Punjab‬ made taking a bag of flour from Punjab to the NWFP equivalent to smuggling heroin.

For the last 20 days, the same Punjab government has stopped supplying flour to the KPK again. We await the law that elevates transporting flour from one province to another to be elevated to terrorism.

This happens every near. No PML-N animosity versus PTI, It’s a regular thing.

Kpk does not have any international boarders if wheat or floor is smuggled it goes through areas called FATA which are under federal government.

The same reason people of kpk are against kalabagh it’s plain n simple a bird in a hand is worth more then two in bush.

Thirdly federal govt and Punjab are racially discriminating people of smaller provinces and repeating Godforbid history of Bangladesh. Please think beyond today and pray those in power to have sense and realise this sense of discrimination becomes more apparent these days .

Please try going to Islamabad or Lahore in car with a number plate from kpk and you will feel like you are crossing Indian border.

P.S I’m not a pathan. I’m an urdu speaking karachiite ( yes a karachiite,not an MQM supporter) and I believe that governments like PMLN are here to destroy and split the country.

@Saim Iqbal: The amount of subsidy is also given to the wheat growers. If you have a basic understanding of Economics or apply your intellect, the government grants subsidy to the growers, millers & sometimes to the middlemen to ensure stability of prices of essential commodities.

This subsidy goes to outside the target area, if the commodity/food item is smuggled out. The only logical solution is that the KPK Government should also give similar subsidy to its wheat growers & flour millers and to stop smuggling to Afghanistan & Central Asia if it is honest in resolving the problems of the people of KPK.

PS: I am from the wheat growing district Mansehra of KPK and demand similar subsidy as the provincial government of Punjab is giving to its inhabitants.

Please don’t use this forum for promoting provincialism. Please avoid linguistic comments on Express Tribune.

I request Express Tribune to please block such comments full of hate.

There is a huge difference in Wheat & Flour. Punjab govt. may provide a huge grant to flour mills but it does not provide any subsidy to the wheat grovers.

Its about wheat stoppage my dear economist friend, wheat stoppage.

Not flour, hope you understand the difference between wheat & flour.

Punjab Govt. gives subsidy to flour mills not wheat fields my friend.

@Arslan: It’s about subsidy sir! The K-P govt should share subsidy to its growers, millers or whosoever to ensure uninterrupted supply of cheap flour to the people of the province.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
