
Each year the OAS Secretary General publishes a proposed Program-Budget for the coming calendar year.  The OAS General Assembly meets in a Special Session to approve the Program-Budget.  Find these documents from 1998-2013 here.

Each year in April, the OAS Board of External Auditors publishes a report covering the previous calendar year’s financial results.  Reports covering 1996-2013 may be found here.

About six weeks after the end of each quarter of each year, the OAS publishes a Quarterly Management and Performance Report, which since 2013 includes reporting on programmatic results.  The full texts may be found here.

Here you will find data on the Human Resources of the OAS, including its organizational structure, each organizational unit’s staffing, vacant posts, and performance contracts.

The OAS executes a variety of projects funded by donors. Evaluation reports are commissioned by donors.  Reports of these evaluations may be found here.

The Inspector General provides the Secretary General with reports on the audits, investigations, and inspections conducted. These reports are made available to the Permanent Council.  More information may be found here.

The OAS has discussed for several years the real estate issue, the funding required for maintenance and repairs, as well as the deferred maintenance of its historic buildings.  The General Secretariat has provided a series of options for funding it.  The most recent document, reflecting the current status of the Strategy, is CP/CAAP-3211/13 rev. 4.

Here you will find information related to the GS/OAS Procurement Operations, including a list of procurement notices for formal bids, links to the performance contract and travel control measure reports, the applicable procurement rules and regulations, and the training and qualifications of its staff.

TODAY, Friday, May 23, the process of accreditation will close for media professionals that wish to cover the Forty-fourth Regular Meeting of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States (OAS), to be held June 3 to 5 in Asuncion, Paraguay.

The online form to request press credentials can be found here .

The press manual with practical information for the media wishing to cover the Assembly is available here .

The General Assembly is the supreme political institution within the OAS and its decisions guide the activities and priorities of the hemispheric Organization for the year ahead. Its mandates cover a wide range of subjects, including the promotion of democratic governance, the strengthening of human rights, hemispheric security, and other issues of common concern pertaining to security, among other areas. A preliminary agenda and other relevant documents may be found on the Web page of the Forty-fourth General Assembly .

For more information, please visit the OAS Website at www.oas.org .
