
India ’s rupee climbed to an 11-month high, after last week’s 2.1 percent rally that was the world’s best performance, as the nation’s clearest election results in three decades boosted investor confidence.

Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party won 282 of 543 parliamentary seats, more than the 272 needed to form a government, according to the Election Commission. The BJP has garnered the nation’s first single-party majority since 1984 and that’s boosting bets the new administration will pursue policies to improve the economy without being constrained by coalition politics, according to Deutsche Bank AG.

The rupee rose “on the back of victory for the BJP with a majority,” analysts at Angel Broking Ltd., including Anish Vyas in Mumbai, wrote in a research report today. Any “sharp upside in the currency will be capped due to dollar demand from oil importers and the central bank,” they wrote.

The currency rose 0.5 percent today to 58.4975 per dollar as of 9:35 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 58.4750 earlier, the strongest level since June 18. Last week’s gain in the rupee was the biggest five-day advance since September.

One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, today to 8.34 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since March 17.

Nomura Holdings Inc., the second-most accurate rupee forecaster in the last four quarters, sees the currency rising toward 57 per dollar by year-end, while Mirae Asset Management Co. predicts a rally to 55.

While the election results have buoyed optimism about India’s policies, the central bank may restrain exchange-rate gains that would threaten the nation’s exports, Sameer Goel, Deutsche Bank’s head of Asian interest-rate and foreign-exchange research in Singapore , said in a telephone interview on May 16.

Three-month offshore non-deliverable forwards rose 0.3 percent to 59.37 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.
