
Cork County Council is to set up an awards system for people who help the disabled and will concentrate  on making town centres more disabled-friendly.

The move is the brainchild of outgoing Mayor of County Cork Cllr Noel O’Connor who last year decided to blindfold himself to see how difficult it is for visually impaired people to walk around his hometown of Mallow.

Mr O’Connor said a special ceremony would take place, probably next September, to recognise people who help the disabled live a more fulfilled life, whether through work or improving mobility.

He said the local authority would be setting up a disability council to discuss issues which affect people’s mobility, in particular.

“Most people with disability live in or close to towns. As town councils are now abolished, the onus will be on the county council to focus more on how it can improve accessibility in the towns for such people,” Mr O’Connor said.

Working with the Common Purpose group, which trains workers  in disability awareness in the workplace, the council held a one-day workshop and seminar on disability awareness and the possibility of establishing a Cork County led Disability Council.

The workshop and seminar was hosted by Mr O’Connor in County Hall on April 29.

“Following on from the seminar, I was delighted to put forward a motion to my last full county council meeting regarding disability awareness. The outcome of the seminar was that an awards event to honour those who work in the disability sector would be organised by Cork County Council,” he said.

A five-person committee will be established by the mayor to adjudicate on those who are proposed for the awards.

“The committee will represent members of the public with disabilities, including those with visual impairment, wheelchair users, those with mental illness, and those with personality disorder,” he said.

“In effect, this will be Cork County Council’s first disability council. The sole function of this committee, initially, will be to assess nominations for the disability awards.

“However, following that event, the brief of the committee will be further developed to encompass a wide variety of issues relating to the lives of those having to live with a disability,” he added.

Irish Examiner live news app for smartphones lets you quickly access breaking news, sport, business, entertainment and weather.
