
"For the good of the entire Church."

26 Italian women in love with Catholic priests have written a letter to Pope Francis asking him to make celibacy optional.

The letter, made public on May 17, described the "devastating suffering" the woman experience as they "live in silence."

"We humbly place our suffering at your feet in the hope that something may change, not just for us, but for the good of the entire Church," the letter read, according to the Vatican Insider .

The women also described the heartbreak that the lovers live with.

"We love these men, they love us, and in most cases, despite all efforts to renounce it, one cannot manage to give up such a solid and beautiful bond. Unfortunately, this brings with it all the pain of not being able 'to live it fully.'

"This continuous giving and then letting go is soul destroying. When this enormous pain leads to a definitive separation, the consequences are no less devastating and both parties are often scarred for life."

Catholic priest celibacy dates back over 1,000 years, and thousands of men have left the priesthood because of the requirement.

In Italy, there are 6,000 former clergymen who left the priesthood to marry.

The 26 women wrote that they do not want their men to leave the ministry to be with them.

"We would... like the men we love to live their priestly vocation fully, serving the community and continue the mission they have been passionately and devotedly engaged in for a great many years," they stated in their letter .

"We wish to stand by their side and support them in their calling which is strengthened by the vital force of love they discovered with us."

In 2010, Pope Francis said that he supports celibacy.

"For now, I am in favour of maintaining celibacy, with all the pros and cons that come with it, because in ten centuries there have been more positive experiences than errors," he wrote in his book, " On Heaven and Earth ."

He also said that his position on celibacy is not steadfast.

"It is a question of discipline, not faith. It can be changed."
