
Prince Harry has paid tribute to the veterans who fought in the bitter and bloody Battle of Monte Cassino in Italy during the second world war , saying that its reputation as 'the forgotten campaign' made "no sense at all".

More than 50,000 Allied soldiers died in the campaign in 1944, which was viewed by Winston Churchill as crucial in securing Italy and the liberation of Rome but was overshadowed in subsequent years by events on the western front.

The Prince, in Italy for a two-day trip, visited the the battle site two days running for commemorative events tied to the 70th anniversary of the capture of Monte Cassino hilltop.

After meeting British veterans who had travelled to Italy for the occasion, he said: "At the end of the day this has always been referred to as the forgotten campaign – to me it makes no sense at all. Those guys in there are as important as everybody else."

The conditions of the series of four attacks were infamously tough, with soldiers having to climb steep terrain, brave terrible weather and withstand relentless Nazi bombardments.

"So these guys were being asked, directed to walk through open ground knowing they were going to lose most of their friends and probably themselves as well – so this deserves as much recognition as everything else," said the Prince, describing the campaign as "a huge ask".

"So I take my hat off (to them)," he added.

By the end of the months-long campaign, huge numbers of soldiers were dead and the Benedictine monastery of Monte Cassino was in ruins. Less than a month later the Normandy landings would take place.

One of the most hurtful things with which veterans of the Italian campaign had to contend after the war was a comment – allegedly made by MP and socialite Nancy Astor – describing them as 'D-Day Dodgers'.

Speaking in Cassino on Monday, Lord Astor, Lords spokesman on defence, defended his great-aunt, saying he did not believe she would have said it.

"She always denied she ever made that remark. In fact she swore to her dying day that she never said it," he said.

"She had three sons and four nephews fighting in the war, including in Italy, so it seems very odd that she would say such a thing. The story just doesn't make sense."

Speaking at a reception for veterans, Ivor Gaskill, 90, remembered trying to climb Monte Cassino. "We were up to our waists in mud and water, soaking wet, hungry and full of lice," he said. "We were being shelled and shot at constantly but it was just a case of keep going. What else was there to do? You couldn't run away."

Gaskill, a private who was just 18 at the time, said it was "marvellous" of the Prince to commemorate the battle. "I thought we were forgotten," he said.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
