
Iraq's Independent High Electoral Commission released the preliminary results for Iraq's April 30 parliamentary elections, showing Prime Minister Nouri Kamal al-Maliki's State of Law group won the most seats.

BAGHDAD, May 19 (UPI) -- The Independent High Electoral Commission announced on Monday the preliminary results for Iraq's April 30 parliamentary elections.

Both U.S. Embassy Baghdad and United Nations Iraq welcomed the announcement, with the embassy hailing the preliminary results "a testament to the courage and resilience of the Iraqi people, and another milestone in the democratic development of Iraq."

62 percent of Iraq's 22 million eligible voters cast their ballots on April 30.

IHEC 's preliminary results show that Prime Minister Nouri Kamal al-Maliki's State of Law party captured 92 of the 328 seats in the Council of Representatives. Although Maliki's State of Law won the most parliamentary seats, SOL failed to capture a majority in the election, which could affect Maliki's bid to continue as prime minister.

SOL rival Shia groups Muwatin and Ahrar won a total of 57 seats.

The Sunni Mutahidoun bloc, headed by Parliamentary Speaker Osama al-Nujaifi, obtained 23 seats, while former Prime Minister Iyad Allawi 's Wataniya list got 21 seats, and Deputy Prime Minister Saleh al-Mutlaq's Arabiya List claimed 10 seats.

The April 30 parliamentary elections were the first such elections since the U.S. military withdrew in 2011.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
