
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.

corporation whose mission is to provide assistance that will support economic growth and poverty reduction in carefully selected countries that demonstrate a commitment to just and democratic governance economic freedom, and investments in their citizenry. For more information on the MCC, please visit www.mcc.gov .

(MCC) has a requirement for Senior Civil/Structural Engineer to assist with due diligence activities of the Benin II Compact.

7) This combined synopsis and solicitation notice is a request for competitive quotations. Therefore, all quotations received prior to the RFQ close date will be considered.

8) The Government will award an order to the responsible independent consultants(s) whose quote conforming to this notice represents the best value in terms of technical criteria, past performance and price. All non-price factors (technical criteria and past performance) are more important than price. If options are included, quotes will be evaluated by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the options(s).

; * Fluency in French and English, written and verbal, is required.

Past Performance: Three (3) professional references for relevant work performed during the past three years.

The government will examine the proposed rate for reasonableness. 10) Evaluation Methodology. The Government will perform a comparative analysis of quotes and will assess the advantages and disadvantages of each quote as related to the Evaluation Factors. Multiple awards may be made from this notice and all quotes will be retained and may be utilized for requirements for a period of 6 months.

11) Quote Deadline.

(EST),

(a) Technical: (1) Cover letter that addresses all technical criteria as listed in this solicitation; (2) Curriculum Vitae (25 page maximum);

(b) Past Performance: Three professional references;

PLEASE DO NOT COMBINE YOUR SUBMISSION INTO ONE (1) DOCUMENT. DOCUMENTS (a), (b), & (c) MUST BE SUBMITTED AS SEPARATE DOCUMENTS.

13) FAR 52.212.3, Offeror Representations and Certifications - Commercial Items shall be required from the selected consultant, prior to the time of award.

14) There are no additional contract requirements(s) necessary for this acquisition other than those consistent with customary commercial practices.

15) See attached documents, (1) Addendum to FAR Clause 52.212-4, (Alt I); (2) MCC Bio-Data Sheet and (3) Statement of Work.
