
Goshen City Court has been operating at a deficit for at least 10 years. Mayor Allan Kauffman says it’s time to close the doors.

Posted on May 19, 2014 at 5:32 p.m.

GOSHEN — Local leaders are expected to decide this week whether to keep the doors of Goshen City Court open.

Mayor Allan Kauffman will request Tuesday evening, May 20, to close the court that handles criminal misdemeanor cases, city ordinance violations and traffic infractions at the end of this year in the name of the city’s budget.

The city court has operated at a deficit for at least 10 years, according to income and expense data provided by Kauffman. The court ended 2013 with a $164,210 loss, and in 2012, the court ended up $120,949 in the red.

Indiana code has allowed city councils to abolish city courts every fourth year since 2006. If the city does not vote whether to keep the court open this year, the council will have to wait until 2018 to revisit the issue.

Kauffman noted, however, the Goshen City Court “has not had a history of judges other than attorneys, nor a reputation for weird decisions.” The court is led by Judge Gretchen Lund, who has expressed concerns about the mayor’s request.

Lund is seeking election for judge of Elkhart Superior Court 4, which is headed by Judge Olga Stickel . Lund is unopposed, and if elected in the fall, her term would begin Jan. 1, 2015.

Kauffman noted that Stickel’s court handles many of the same type of cases that the city court takes on.

The city court’s largest expense – roughly $182,000 – in 2013 was for full-time and part-time personnel.

Other office expenses include the service of a public defender and interpreter. Anyone who appears in the city court for a criminal charge is entitled to a public defender and interpreter if he is unable to pay for an attorney on his own.

Lund noted in a letter to council members that the city court has requested grant funds to offset the cost of an interpreter. This year, the court received roughly $6,693. The court contracts with Elkhart Legal Aid to provide public defender services for $14,000 annually. Anyone who can pay for his public defender is ordered to pay $50 in addition to court costs and fines. The $50 payment is distributed back into the general fund.

“Because of the court’s efforts to secure grant money, contract with Elkhart Legal Aid at a fixed cost and manage this department as fiscally conservative as possible, this court sent $14,175.48 back to the general fund in 2013,” Lund said.

“Such a premise destroys the integrity of the judicial process and greatly undermines the mission of this court,” she added.

There were 801 ordinance violations filed in Goshen City Court in 2012 and 455 violations in 2013, according to Lund. As of Thursday, May 15, she said 70 ordinance violations were filed, and of those, three were filed in May. She expects roughly 200 ordinance violations to come through to the city court this year.

Kauffman said he did not come to the decision to close the city court lightly.

If the measure passes, Goshen City Court would cease operation at the end of this year.

Follow Elkhart Truth reporter Angelle Barbazon on Twitter at @tweetangelle .
