
 iKang Healthcare Group, Inc. ("iKang" or the "Company") KANG, +10.11% the largest provider in China's fast growing private preventive healthcare services market in terms of revenue in 2013, announced today it will attend the 2014 UBS Global Healthcare Conference to be held on May 19th to 21st at Sheraton New York Hotel in New York, United States.

Mr. Ligang Zhang, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of iKang is scheduled to present on Tuesday, May 20th at 12:30pm Eastern Time, and will be available to meet with analysts and investors.

For further information, please visit the investor relations page of the Company's website at, www.ikanggroup.com .

iKang Healthcare Group, Inc. is the largest provider in China's fast growing private preventive healthcare services market, accounting for approximately 12.3% of market share in terms of revenue in 2013.

Through iKang's integrated service platform and established nationwide network of medical centers and third-party service provider facilities, the Company provides comprehensive and high quality preventive healthcare solutions including a wide range of medical examinations services and value-added services including disease screening and other services. iKang's customers are primarily corporate customers who contract the Company to provide medical examination services to their employees and clients and pay for these services at pre-negotiated prices. iKang also directly markets its services to individual customers. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the Company delivered its services to approximately 1.9 million individuals in total.

As of March 25, 2014, iKang's nationwide network consisted of 45 self-owned medical centers covering 15 of the most affluent cities in China, namely Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chongqing, Tianjin, Nanjing, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Chengdu, Fuzhou, Changchun, Jiangyin, Changzhou and Hong Kong . The Company has also supplemented its self-owned medical center network by contracting with approximately 300 third-party service provider facilities which include selected independent medical examination centers and hospitals across all of China's provinces, creating a nationwide network that allows iKang to serve its customers in markets where it does not have self-owned medical centers.

This press release contains "forward-looking statements." These forward-looking statements relate to beliefs, expectations or intentions and similar statements concerning matters that are not of historical fact and are generally accompanied by words such as "estimate," "project," "predict," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "potential," "plan," "goal" or other words that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. The Company has based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations and assumptions about future events. While the Company's management considers these expectations to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the Company's control. Investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

Copyright (C) 2014 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All rights reserved.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
