
Construction on the light rail project has spurred the economy, Mayor Jim Watson says.

Progressive Conservative leader Tim Hudak confirmed this weekend that he would not cancel the $2.1-billion light-rail project currently underway in Ottawa.

On Friday, Hudak said a PC government would scrap plans for several planned LRT lines in Toronto, as well as Mississauga, Brampton and Hamilton. However, speaking on Sunday morning — at the site of one of the two Toronto-area natural gas generating plants whose cancellations are costing Ontarians $1 billion — the Tory leader said that “Ottawa continues” when asked if this city’s LRT was part of those cancellations.

The news is not a huge surprise. After all, Ottawa’s LRT project is well underway, with a tunnel being dug under the city’s downtown core. No one really expected Hudak to pull the plug on this project. Even in Toronto, where people appear divided over whether light rail is the right choice, Hudak said he would not cancel the Eglinton-Crosstown LRT, which is already under construction.

The real issue for Ottawa’s light-rail future is what happens with the so-called “Phase 2″ of the project, a plan to extend rail east, west and south, between 2018 and 2023. The city is looking for almost $1 billion from each of the provincial and federal governments for that expansion.

It’s still unclear whether — or when — a PC government would commit to funding Phase 2. Hudak has vowed to invest $2 billion in transportation starting in 2017, once the budget is balanced. But his discussions about transit investment have concentrated largely on Toronto and the surrounding area.

We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.

We want you to have the most accurate weather report you can.

(C&P) Brookfield Pathway - Sawmill Creek Pathway to Brookfield(C&P) Brookfield Pathway closed from Sawmill Creek Pathway to Brookfield due to construction. From Monday, August 18 to Autumn 2015.

(C&P) Rideau River Pathway at 417 (west side)Rideau River pathway on west side closed at 417 due to construction. Follow the signed detour. Until mid-September.

(MTO) 417 W/B - Eagleson to Hwy 7(MTO) 417 W/B intermittent lane reductions from Eagleson to HWY 7 due to construction. From Friday, May 2 to Friday, October 31.

(MTQ) 50 E/B - 5 to St-Louis (Sun - Thu)(MTQ) 50 eastbound closed from 5 to St-Louis due to construction. Follow the signed detour. From 9pm Monday, August 25 to 6am Tuesday, August 26.

Stories, pictures and tributes to life. View and place obituaries, and more.

Share the joy. Tell the world. Read and place announcements here.

Buy, sell and trade smarter.

Find the job you want in your city. View and place job listings, and more.

The faster, fresher and greener way to shop flyers.
