
(CNN) — As if the deadly flooding inundating much of the Balkans wasn’t alarming enough, rescuers must now grapple with another concern: the risk of landmines from the Bosnian war resurfacing.

The epic flooding is the worst Serbia has seen since the country began keeping records 120 years ago, meteorologists said.

“There are reports that landmines buried during the conflict and not yet removed are in some instances being shifted with the landslides, adding (to) the dangers of people living in the areas as well as rescuers,” the Red Cross said.

“We cannot say exactly what happened with the mine fields,” Bosnian President Bakir Izetbegovic told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour. He warned that the mines were likely displaced in the flooding along with signs warning of mines in the area. “The system of the mine fields (was) under control, and had warnings marks are now actually removed,” Izetbegovic said.

In the Serbian town of Obrenovac, at least 13 bodies have been recovered and officials in Bosnia-Herzegovina said 13 people had died there so far. Expert predict those numbers to rise as flood waters recede.

Even though the intense rainfall is subsided Monday, the disaster is far from over. CNN meteorologist Pedram Javaheri said flooding in the region will last at least another week — and in some places, it could get worse.

The Serbian capital of Belgrade, for example, sits at the crux of the swollen Sava and Danube rivers. As water rushes downstream, the flood level in Belgrade is expected to rise through Thursday, Javaheri said.

The water has caused landslides throughout Bosnia.

“The landslides are absolutely destroying the country. We have registered up to 2,000,” said Dr. Zlatko Lagumdzija, Bosina’s minister of foreign affairs.

After a day of assessments, property damage alone is estimated a $1.37 billion (1 billion euros) said Elvir Camdzic, a presidential adviser.

“When combined with the overall economic losses due to the flooding, the full scale of the damage will be measured in billions of euros,” Camdzic said.

In Serbia alone, more than 24,000 people have evacuated to escape water that is chest-high in some areas. Bosian officials say 30,000 people are displaced in their country.

The woman’s house is now flooded, and she says she has no idea where she will live.

But many Serbians wouldn’t budge.

The Serbian government said at least 13 bodies have been found in the town of Obrenovac, about 35 kilometers (22 miles) from the capital of Belgrade. But one of the 13 was someone who had already died “of natural causes,” Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said.

One of the deceased was a rescuer, said Dragan Radovanovic, president of the Serbian branch of the Red Cross.

Authorities estimate that 90% of Obrenovac has been flooded.

Serbia’s not alone. In nearby Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least 13 people have died, Deputy Minister of Security Samir Agic said. The catastrophic weather has prompted authorities to declare a state of emergency in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Bosnian authorities say the flooded town of Maglaj received the average rainfall for two months in less than two days.

Soldiers, rescue workers and volunteers rushed to stack sandbags in towns near rivers throughout Serbia.

The Sava River has already reached 6.3 meters (20.7 feet) — a historic high, the Serbian government said. The Prime Minister said workers have erected a dam 7.3 meters (24 feet) tall in the area of Sabac.

In Kostolac, along the Danube River, workers built sandbag walls to protect a thermal power plant — one that the energy minister called the most important power facility in Serbia. The plant produces 20% of the nation’s power.

The Prime Minister thanked countries that have already come to Serbia’s aid. He said he was especially grateful to members of the Russian special forces, including one member who swam 200 meters (656 feet) in cold water to save several people.

Whether you play the lotto or do something else entirely, please do what you can to support the victims of flooding in these difficult times. Thank you.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
