
Several segments of society continued their protests across the country on Sunday against Geo/Jang Group for allegedly airing objectionable content in its morning show Utho Jago Pakistan.

In Karachi, activists of the Sunni Ittehad Council (SIC) and Anjumane Naujawan-e-Islam (ANI) staged a demonstration outside the Jang Group office on II Chundrigar Road.

Addressing the rally, the SICP Deputy Secretary General Tariq Mehboob said that Geo/Jang Group offended the sentiments of millions of Muslims by running objectionable content.

Giving an ultimatum to the government to take action against the group, he called for a full boycott of the Geo/Jang Group.

In Quetta, Ahle Sunnat Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) staged a protest outside Quetta Press Club. The protesters, led by the ASWJ provincial leader Ramzan Mengal, strongly condemned the media outlet for hurting the sentiments of Muslims.

The Lahore Bar Association (LBA) is likely to observe a strike today (Monday) on the call of Punjab Bar Council in protest against GEO TV for allegedly committing blasphemy in a morning show. The lawyers will tie black arm-bands in protest against the said morning show and will not appear before the courts.

In Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa’s (K-P) All Swat Cable Operators Association (ASCOPA) on Sunday staged a demonstration against Geo TV for hurting people’s religious sentiments, launching propaganda against security agencies and misbehaving with cable-operators association’s office bearers.

The protesters, holding placards and banners inscribed with slogans against Geo TV, marched from Nishath Chowk to Swat Press Club. The speakers demanded that Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (Pemra) and government impose a ban on Geo’s transmission.

In Abbottabad, Jinnah Welfare Society announced plans to boycott of Geo TV and Jang Group’s publications. Through a resolution they demanded a blanket ban on Geo/Jang Group.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 19th, 2014.

A soon to be ex-reader.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
