
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I interviewed Harry Forbes about whether it makes sense for companies with warehouses to invest in solar energy.  Harry is a colleague at the ARC Advisory Group and is our expert on electric power, renewable energy, and energy management.  I spoke with him about the prospects for solar energy as applied to warehouses.

Forbes: The amount of solar photovoltaic (PV) development is growing rapidly, led by just a handful of US states, and the installed cost of PV systems continues to fall (see the figure below).  Predicting the future price of solar modules carries great uncertainties right now because (allegedly) some distressed Asian solar producers are selling product at unsustainable prices in order to maintain their cash flow.

Solar cells, the semiconductor components of the system, may be subject to exponential price decay, especially since their conversion efficiency is also rising.

Regardless of the future price of solar cells, the other costs of a solar PV installation (called balance-of-system or “BoS” costs) are much more stable.  These are the costs for engineering, voltage inverters, foundations, racks, site prep, installation, permitting, controls, etc.  These costs are estimated at $1.60/watt average, and the BoS costs in the US have been steady and have not declined gradually as has occurred in more mature solar markets like Germany. So the outlook is for installed costs to fall, but not exponentially in the long run.

Forbes: Yes. Roof space is an idle asset, especially if the roof is in an area of high insolation and in a state that has promoted solar PV energy with subsidies.  The other benefit of a rooftop PV installation is that it is very near an electric load (the warehouse). Subsidy policies often recognize this benefit. If you put a big solar field in a rural farm, the energy has to be transported further.

Forbes: Yesterday, but now if you haven’t already. Especially if you own sites is in states like Massachusetts, New Jersey, California, Arizona, New York, North Carolina, Hawaii or Colorado.  These states have the largest markets right now for commercial solar.  Much of the US solar development is being done at utility scale, but I expect that to shift over time to commercial and residential sites.

In terms of investing, there are a number of different business models possible for commercial sites.  You may be able to lease your roof space and share in the revenue.  You don’t necessarily have to invest in the solar PV plant.

Yes. Going forward US commercial and industrial firms should expect to pay higher utility rates.  In the US electric energy policy and prices are set at the state level, so we have 50+ policies that are not necessarily aligned. But utility business models are going to be disrupted by renewables. At the same time the federal government will soon propose regulations that could force many coal power plants now operating to close. Utilities that must to invest in new generating capacity to replace it will end up passing that cost to their customers.

As more utility customers reduce their energy purchases by substituting their own (daytime-only) solar energy production, customers will also have to pay much more for the 24/7 service level which falls on the utility companies.  This will add value to in-house generating capacity, and place more value on timing of energy-intensive business activities to avoid spikes in electric power demand.
