
Updated 9:07 p.m.

The Texas Tech Board of Regents announced State Senator Robert Lloyd Duncan as the sole finalist for chancellor of the Texas Tech University System. He's one of the most respected and accomplished  legislators in Texas and, hands down, the most powerful state politician in the region. There's no doubt he bleeds red and black, which is all the bloodline you could hope for in a new chancellor. Duncan was born and raised in West Texas. He also received his bachelors and law degrees from TTU.

"I think [the Board of Regents] really put their hearts and souls and tried to do what was right and find the best candidate for Tech," said State Representative Charles Perry. "Can't be a  better transition. Senator Duncan I think has wanted this, I just was talking to him. Very passionate about Tech, this is where his roots are, it's where his roots are, it's where he grew up. I don't think we could've found a better guy."

Current Chancellor Kent Hance said in a statement, "I'm delighted that the Board of Regents selected my friend, Bob Duncan, to be the next chancellor. He is an outstanding choice."

Texas Tech President Duane Nellis released a statement saying, "I am excited for the future of the Texas Tech System under his leadership, and look forward to working closely with him in my role as president of Texas Tech University."

"I don't think there is a more widely respected Senator in Austin than Bob Duncan. He has widespread respect down there. I think this will be a popular choice among our alumni and I think he'll continue to move Texas Tech forward," said the Executive Vice President of the Texas Tech Alumni Association Bill Dean. "Bob, of course, was the student body president at Texas Tech, all of his children graduated from Texas Tech, so he definitely has that Texas Tech connection."

"I think it's a historic day for Texas Tech. He's been serving this community for over 20 years and I think it's a great way for him to cap off his service to the community," said Duncan's former special assistant Zach Brady. "I'm really happy for my friend and former boss, Bob Duncan."

Duncan was elected to the Texas House of Representatives in 1992. He has served as a Texas Senator since 1996.

"You can't find a guy that knows the inner workings of how state funding goes," added Perry. "I'm looking forward to see where he's going with it, because it's probably a little different direction."

U.S. Representative Randy Neugebauer released a statement Monday saying, " The Regents have chosen a strong leader, and I know Bob Duncan will provide a clear vision for Tech's continued growth. Bob has been a great State Representative and Senator, and more importantly, a great friend."

"Bob knows how to work very quietly and very effectively to get things done. I think his work as a politician, and a very successful one in the legislature, will translate into a very effective chancellorship," said Dean.

"We have long enjoyed working with Senator Duncan as a great friend to Lubbock businesses and the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce, and we know the Texas Tech University System will be in good hands moving forward," said Alona Beesinger on behalf of the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce.

State law requires twenty-one days to pass before the Board of Regents can finalize the decision. After the official approval of the chancellor selection and employment contract, any action regarding the resignation of Senator Duncan will occur.

Updated 1:47 p.m.

State Senator Robert Duncan is the sole finalist to succeed Kent Hance as Texas Tech Chancellor, according to an e-mail from the Tech System. Pending confirmation by Tech regents, Duncan will start as chancellor July 1. Hance will continue to represent Tech as chancellor emeritus.

Duncan's name has been atop the list of possible replacements ever since the search began. He holds a bachelor's and a law degree from Texas Tech. He served in the Texas House of Representatives for three years, then was elected to the State Senate in 1996. He is a member of the powerful Senate Finance Committee.

Regents voted Friday to give authority to Board Chairman Mickey Long to publicly announce who the finalist is. Reports indicate this was not an easy decision to make.

"There's always discussion," Larry Anders, vice chairman of the Board of Regents, said Friday. "We have nine people that have very strong opinions on things. There's always discussion. But this board has got a unique ability to rally together and be unified."

There is now a 21-day period before regents will vote on Duncan's confirmation.

This selection, of course, will also open up a seat in the Texas Senate. This could trigger a series of steps if a Texas House member would follow Duncan's legislative path from House to Senate.

Duncan succeeds Kent R. Hance, who has served as chancellor since December 2006 and has agreed to continue to serve the TTU System as chancellor emeritus.

No comments yet!

The content has been reported and it will be reviewed by a moderator.

Mobile advertising for this site is available on Local Ad Buy .
