
Fed up with rising prices and scam after scam in the UPA government, coupled with blackmailing tactics of regional allies, electorate of Indian democracy has given a clear mandate to Narender Modi. Now Modi has to prove that he is not an agent of Ambani and Adani as accused by some parties, but he is agent of people of the country. Also he has to prove that he is not remote controlled by the RSS.

What has astonished even the party's top brass is the fact that it has not only successfully completed its mission 272+ but given it an additional thirty to forty seats besides support from other parties. The result shows the maturity of electorate  who had slapped the forces led by the Congress, BSP supremo Mayawati and Samajwadi Party Chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, who had used every weapon available in their armory to turn the election into secular versus communal.

Efforts to revive the ghost of Godhara riots failed to cut much ice with the electorate. According to the political observers, election results have wider rectification not only for the Congress but for BJP's trio namely L.K. Adwani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Sushma Swaraj, who had opposed Modi's name as prime ministerial candidate.

Had party failed to get majority on its own and if had to depend on the support of regional parties, the trio would have bullied Narender Modi, but now they have to reconcile with the growing stature of Narender Modi. During the UPA Govt. Sushma Sawaraj was occupying number two position in his capacity as leader of opposition. Before the emergence of Modi in national scene she was seen as party's prime ministerial candidate. Results have proved beyond doubt that minus Narender Modi BJP would have not achieved what it has now.

More than the Gujarat model it was the bold personality of Modi and his talks of development which has attracted the people especially the youth towards the BJP. Defeat of Arun Jaitely in Amritsar at the hands of former Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh is undoubtedly not only a set back for Jatiely but for the party also.

Modi's right hand Amit Shah proved to be a big strategist in managing the electorate that he succeeded in growing lotus in otherwise barren and caste and religion ridden UP. The Congress Party's last minute gamble of including Jats in the list of other backward castes for jobs in central government services also failed to attract the Jats towards the Congress. Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and UP's Jat leader Ajit Singh has virtually bullied the UPA government for taking this decision while assuring Sonia Gandhi that it will benefit party in Haryana, Rajstan, Delhi and UP.

However, the decision alienated other backward castes faway from the Congress as is evident from results in Rajsthan, Haryana and western UP, a stronghold of Ajit Singh. Results are a big set back for Arvind Kejriwal led Aam Adami party also. Modi has won both from Vadodara and Varansi  and he is likely to retain the Varansi seat.

There is a clear indication that party chief Rajnath and former Chief Nitin Gandkari although may have major say in the Govt. but Modi will not allow himself to be dictated by anybody even the RSS.

Delivering his first speech Modi has given broader hints that he will try to build new India with the help of every stakeholder specially the youths. He has to run the Govt. very cautiously as forces will try to discredit his Govt. on  the issue of secularism.

Editorial NOTE: This article is categorized under     Opinion Section. The views expressed in this article are solely     those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of     merinews.com. In case you have a opposing view, please click      here to share the same in the comments section.
