
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

MP Mnyamezeli Booi , right after leaving the Randburg Magistrates Court.

Mnyamezeli Booi is set to replace disgraced Communications Minister Dina Pule in Parliament.

Booi was the chairman of the portfolio committee on defence and military veterans until 2010, but was sacked due to a conflict between him and then Defence and Military Veterans Minister Lindiwe Sisulu according to IOL .

He had ordered Sisulu to submit a report by the interim national defence force commission to Parliament on establishing a permanent National Defence Force Service Commission and a special dispensation for the conditions of service of members of the defence force.

The ANC had stated its support for Sisulu, and cautioned Booi that his ultimatum to Sisulu to release the report within 30 days bordered on “ill-discipline”.

According to za.leaks He was one of the ministers who pleaded guilty in the Travelgate scandal, for which he was fined R50 000, or five years jail. He was given until January of this year to pay the fine off.

In 2012 Magistrate Cathy Mnisi withdrew charges of intimidation, assault and interfering with police duties against Booi, after his wife was allegedly caught driving recklessly in her luxury Mercedes Benz.

According to The Sunday Independent , she had managed to evade police long enough to get into her driveway and close the gate.

Booi then came out of the house and told the officers to "f*** off from my house".

The cops, after calling for backup, then forced their way into the house. Booi allegedly grabbed one of the officers and slapped him.

Booi allegedly told the cops that he was highly connected and was friends with Gauteng police commissioner Mzwandile Petros.

"A letter attached to the charge sheet compiled by the court's senior public prosecutor, Petros Skhosana, asking for all charges to be withdrawn against Booi, seems to have saved the day," the paper wrote.

If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.

© 2014 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.
