
Objects that crashed to the ground in China have been identified as space debris, state media reported, after a Russian rocket carrying a communications satellite fell back to Earth minutes after lift-off.

Qiqihar city in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang, which borders Russia’s far east, reported that several objects appeared to have fallen from the sky on Friday, the Xinhua news agency said.

One of the parts is a metal dome with jagged, blackened edges.

After analysis, experts have concluded they were 'parts from a carrier rocket or a satellite', Xinhua said Sunday, citing the China National Space Administration.

Authorities were communicating on the issue 'with relevant parties,' it added.

It  was the second failure for the Proton-M in less than a year, and the  second time that it had failed to deliver such a European satellite,  after the last one crashed shortly after launch in 2011.

Friday's  unmanned mission went awry when the engine on the third stage of the  Proton-M booster rocket failed, Oleg Ostapenko, head of the Russian  space agency Roskosmos, told Russian news agencies.

He said the precise  cause was unknown.

The  failure occurred at an altitude of 160 km (100 miles), about nine  minutes after the early-morning lift-off from the Russian-leased  Baikonur facility in Kazakhstan.

The  state-run RIA quoted Ostapenko as saying that the rocket and all debris  had burned up in the atmosphere: 'We can say with certainty that  nothing reached Earth.'

However,  Russian media said some debris may have fallen into the Pacific or been  scattered over Siberia and Russia's Far East.

No casualties or damage  were reported on the ground.

The  lost Express AM4R satellite, worth more than 200 million euros ($275  million), was described by its maker Astrium, a unit of the European  aerospace group Airbus, as one of the most powerful satellites built in  Europe.

Its loss delays a number of commercial projects by three to four years.

'It's  a heavy blow, of course. And the thing is that our workhorse rocket -  our most powerful and the most-used rocket - has such a bad record,'  Ivan Moiseyev, head of the Russian-based Institute of Space Policy think  tank, told Kommersant-FM radio.

'It's  a very unsuccessful picture on the whole and, if you compare it with  our main competitors, with Europe, their last accident was 12 years  ago,' Moiseyev said.

Last  July, three navigation satellites worth about $200 million were lost  when the Proton-M rocket crashed near the launch pad shortly after  take-off.

That accident  strained relations between Kazakhstan and Russia and led Kazakhstan to  temporarily ban Proton launches from Baikonur.

State-run Rossiya-24 television said all launches had been suspended from Kazakhstan after Friday's failure.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
