
Our weekly round up of the local news from Fethiye, Oludeniz, Hisaronu, Kayakoy and area for the week ended 17th May 2014.

The national, international and local press reported on the terrible mining disaster in Soma.

At total of 301 miners died and 485 escaped or were rescued from the mine that caught fire last Tuesday.

By Friday the local press was brimming with stories showing support for the miners.

Paragliding pilots were pictured on top of the famous Babadag paragliding launch site wearing black ribbons an holding a banner expressing regret for the deaths.

There was also the story of a local taxi driver who sent his earnings for the day to the disaster fund.

A local women’s group were also reported to have held a ‘bake and bring’ sale and sent the proceeds to the miners fund too.

The Kismet Bar in central Fethiye is also co-ordinating a relief drop off point with plans to deliver aid directly to the affected families.

On Saturday the rescue operations were declared at an end after the bodies of the two final coalminers were retrieved.

Kesikapi area near the Fethiye – castle goats left to graze became stranded on the rocks.

When the shepherd could not coax them down he asked for help and soon AKUT, the local mountain rescue team, were on the scene.

They scaled the rocks to rescue the goats only to find them very difficult to catch.

They managed in the end and brought them back to safety.

A male driver died when his car overturned on the main road near Karachula. His passenger survived.

The air ambulance attended the scene and took the injured passenger to Antalya for treatment.

The first beach clean was held on Sunday 11th May at the bird sanctuary in Calis in an event organised by the local marine conservation body TURMEPA.

The beach clean was part of a coordinated campaign that is held each year where 20 countries that have a coastline along the Mediterranean raise awareness of coastal pollution by carrying out a simultaneous coastline clean up.

Students and teachers from a local college and the chairman of the local maritime chamber cleared away bottles, plastics and other wastes that had accumulated along the waterline.

Then on Monday 12th May 2014 bar owners, residents of Calis and the local Council joined together to clean up the main Calis Beach.

No grain was left unturned as the volunteers and a workforce from Fethiye Belediye donned gloves, grabbed black bags and picked, raked and sifted plastic, metal, cigarette butts, wood and other detritus from the popular Turkish resort beach.

The Fethiye fire service was called out to a slippery job last week.

Citizens in Karachula had spotted a 2 metre long snake slithering through the long grass near a green house.

Their efforts to capture it failed when it slipped off into an underground container.

The fire service was called and they were soon on the scene with their special inspection camera on and searching the dark space.

They found the snake, grabbed it and bagged it.

Later they released the snake, but not in Karachula.
