
'We are with Haftar,' commander tells Reuters in Benghazi; air force base also swore allegiance to renegade general, whose forces stormed parliament on Sunday.

The top commander of the Libyan army's special forces said on Monday his troops had joined forces with renegade general Khalifa Haftar, who has said he wants to purge the North African country of militant Islamists.

Earlier, a Libyan air force base in the eastern city of Tobruk also said it was allying itself Haftar. "The Torbuk air force base will join...the army under the command of General Khalifa Qassim Haftar," the statement said. Staff at the air base confirmed its authenticity.

Heavily-armed gunmen apparently loyal to Haftar had stormed parliament on Sunday demanding it be suspended and power handed over to a 60-member body that is rewriting Libya's constitution.

The Tobruk air base development was significant as it was not clear how much backing Haftar's men had within Libya's nascent regular armed forces and the powerful brigades of former rebels who had toppled Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.

Any alliance of militias lining up against Islamist groups threatens to deepen chaos in the OPEC oil producer, whose fragile government is struggling to gain legitimacy and impose its authority.

Haftar, once a Gaddafi ally who turned against him over a 1980s war in Chad, fueled rumors of a coup in February when he appeared on television in uniform calling for a caretaker government to end the crisis in Libya.

His forces attacked militants in the eastern city of Benghazi on Friday. More than 70 people were killed.

Since the end of Gaddafi's one-man rule, the main rival militias of ex-rebels have become powerbrokers in Libya's political vacuum, carving out fiefdoms.

Compounding the anarchy, Libya's outgoing government demanded parliament to go into recess after the forthcoming vote on the 2014 budget until the next election later this year, according to a statement issued after a cabinet meeting.

Haftar and other militias have demanded that a parliament, paralyzed by infighting step down.

The government demanded that parliament repeat a vote on a new prime minister. Business Ahmed Maiteeq was named as new premier two weeks ago in a chaotic vote disputed by many lawmakers.

"This government submits a national initiative to the General National Congress (GNC) to reach a national consensus during this decisive phase," the statement of the cabinet of outgoing premier Abdullah al-Thinni said.

Should the GNC fail to agree on a new premier then Thinni's cabinet should stay, it said. There was no immediate reaction from the GNC which is unlikely to give up power without a fight.

Tripoli was quiet on Monday with most people staying indoors after fighting raged across the capital on Sunday. Two people were killed in that violence.

The international airport was open though some flights were cancelled as travelers could not easily reach it. But authorities extended the closure of Benghazi airport for another week because of the unrest, the airport director said. It was attacked with rockets overnight.

Saudi Arabia closed its embassy in Tripoli and evacuated its diplomatic staff due to security reasons on Monday.

Your talkback has been submitted successfully.

If selected for publication, it will appear as soon as possible on Haaretz.com.

General Khalifa Haftar -- a new but logical Gaddafi who may eventually rule Arab North Africa as an eventually powerful Empire, no matter what the Persian Gulf oil monarchies, Nato, Israel, and Black African nations want and prefer?   Probably.  Once the oil fields are under his control and producing the capacity, cash and the military purchasing power will let him become the Libyan Empire's emperor.   When that happens,  Persia -- iran -- will be promoted and supported as the only real power  in the region, other than but not necessarily Israel which may align with him, able to contain the yet to be crowned Emperor Haftar.

Your talkback has been submitted successfully.

If selected for publication, it will appear as soon as possible on Haaretz.com.

Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East.  Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict,  the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip,  the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.
