
Canadian corporate income tax policies should be reformed to take into account Canada's current economic and social circumstances, and to make the tax regime fairer for workers, the Mowat Center, a think tank, says.

A new report from the Center, Corporate Tax Reform: Issues and Prospects for Canada, warns that the existing system is failing on a number of fronts. Its main features have been in place since the Second World War, and, as the report points out, were designed for an earlier economic context.

The system is seen as economically inefficient, and the Center said it is discouraging investment and hampering innovation and productivity by taxing the normal return to capital. In turn, it increases the risk of bankruptcy by treating debt financing more favorably than equity financing, thus encouraging firms to rely too heavily on debt finance.

The report notes that globalization has led to greater capital and corporate mobility and resulted in a substantial restructuring of Canada's economic base away from manufacturing and toward services. The labor market has been transformed, thanks to higher rates of education and specialization, and the increased economic participation of women. At the same time, there have been marked increases in income inequality and so-called precarious employment.

The Center said that changes to the personal income tax regime have accelerated the need for corporate tax reform. Tax shelters are now widely available through a range of retirement and savings options, meaning that the intended role of corporate tax as a way to prevent the reinvestment of corporate profits tax-free has largely been negated. Meanwhile, the sales tax regime has been substantially modernized, and there has been a good deal of debate on resource royalties, payroll taxes, and carbon taxes. But corporate tax has remained largely unchanged.

The report's headline recommendation is that Canada transition to a rent-based tax that would focus on extraordinary, or "above-normal" profits, rather than corporate income. The aim would be to ensure that no economic inefficiency arises and that the tax system does not serve as a disincentive to investment.

At present, corporate income is subject to a federal tax as well as tax rates set by the provinces in which the income is earned. The current federal tax rate for general corporations is 15 percent and provincial rates range between 10 and 16 percent.

The report explains that to begin the desired overhaul, the Government would need to introduce an allowance on corporate equity that would add a deduction for the cost of equity finance. The personal income tax rules would then need to be altered, to eliminate the dividend tax credit and include 100 percent of capital gains in taxable income.

The Center claims that the changes would, on balance, increase the fairness of the tax system. It stresses that, due to the highly integrated nature of today's international capital markets, corporate tax is largely shifted away from shareholders and onto workers. By focusing on above-normal profit rather than corporate income, the reformed tax system would no longer prompt firms to pass the burden onto workers in the form of lower wages.

The report acknowledges that the tax base under a rent tax would be smaller because the capital income of shareholders would no longer be included. Increasing the rate charged to maintain revenue neutrality could encourage profit shifting and the loss of additional revenue. However, the Centre believes that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's ongoing efforts to combat international tax shifting will eventually bear some fruit. This should therefore mean that pressures to maintain low corporate tax rates will wane.

Please enter your email address to join the Tax-News.com mailing list. View previous newsletters.

Receive FREE daily updates from Tax-News.com, straight to    your inbox. Register Now!
