
Hundreds of people turned out Monday for the festivities as a mural honoring "The Simpsons" was unveiled in Springfield, Oregon.

A citizen review panel is narrowly opposing an Oregon ballot measure to require labeling of genetically modified foods.

PORTLAND, Ore. (KOIN 6) — A federal judge says he’ll rule on a case that challenges the constitutionality of Oregon’s gay marriage ban Monday.

U.S. District Judge Michael McShane has notified attorneys that he’ll publish his decision at noon Monday.

Four gay and lesbian couples brought suit arguing Oregon’s marriage laws unconstitutionally discriminate against same-sex couples. In March, Democratic Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum called the ban is legally indefensible and refused to offer arguments supporting it.

State officials have said same-sex marriages could begin almost immediately after a decision.

Plaintiffs Deanna Geiger and Janine Nelson said they plan to wed at the Multnomah County marriage license office at 501 SE Hawthorne immediately following what they anticipate will be a positive ruling.

“After a 31-year engagement, we are ready to say ‘I do,’” Geiger said in a written statement.

The group argued it should be allowed to defend the ban on behalf of its Oregon members after the attorney general’s decision. But McShane said the attorney general is accountable to Oregon voters, not a third party comprised of mostly national political interests.

NOM filed an emergency motion for appeal to the Ninth Circuit Monday morning in hopes McShane would not immediately allow for same-sex marriages to be recognized in the state.

But the appeals court denied the group’s request for emergency stay blocking Oregon gay marriage ruling.

Seventeen states and the District of Columbia have legalized same-sex marriage. Judges in seven other states have struck down bans on gay marriage, though officials are appealing. More challenges are pending.

The most recent was Tuesday, when U.S. District Magistrate Judge Candy Dale overturned Idaho’s ban. On Thursday, a federal appeals court placed the ruling temporarily on hold while it decides whether to issue a lengthier stay while Idaho’s governor and attorney general appeal.

In Oregon, Portland attorneys Lake Perriguey and Lea Ann Easton filed a lawsuit in October on behalf of two women in a relationship for more than 30 years. Two months later, the American Civil Liberties Union and lawyers from two firms went to court on behalf of a lesbian couple and a gay couple.

Oregon law has long prohibited same-sex marriage. Its ban, approved by 57% of voters, came months after Multnomah County briefly issued marriage licenses to same-sex couples in 2004.

About 3,000 gay couples were allowed to marry before a judge halted the practice. The Oregon Supreme Court later invalidated the marriages.
