
SUPERIOR Court Judge Teresa Kim-Tenorio credited four days served and imposed a six-month suspended jail sentence on Fritz Jacob Passi, 31, who admitted to the offense of disturbing the peace.

Assistant Attorney General Barbara Cepeda represented the government during the change-of-plea hearing but Assistant Attorney General Margo Badawy signed on behalf of the commonwealth.

Assistant Public Defender Benjamin Petersburg represented Passi.

On Feb. 8, 2014, Passi, while intoxicated, shouted expletives in front of the victim’s house. Passi punched the victim after he approached the accused. The victim defended himself and pinned Passi to the ground until a responding Department of Public Safety police officer arrived. Passi’s actions disturbed the victim’s peace, according to the plea agreement.

The judge also placed Passi on two years’ probation following his change-of-plea hearing last week.

Passi will pay a $200 fine, $25 in court costs, a $60 probation fee, and complete 40 hours of community work service during the first six months of his probation.

Passi will pay the costs of his victim’s medical treatment at the Commonwealth Health Center at a rate to be determined by the Adult Probation Office.

Passi will not have any contact with the victim and must stay 100 yards away from the residence of the victim and his wife throughout the duration of his probationary period.

Passi will refrain from entering the victim or the wife’s place of employment.

He will not purchase, possess, or consume alcohol or any controlled substances. He is also prohibited from entering any establishment that sells or promotes consumption of alcohol. He is prohibited from associating with persons who are consuming or under the influence of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances, the court ordered.

Passi will submit to alcohol and drug assessment and, if recommended by the Adult Probation Office, submit to random blood, breath, or urine drug screens at any time.

The government agreed to dismiss the remaining offense of assault and battery which the court granted.

On Feb. 8, police responded to a disturbance call at 7:40 a.m. at a compound near the corner of Dama Di Noche Street and Alaihai Avenue in Garapan, east of Martha’s Store.

Prior to the incident, the victim saw his wife and another female neighbor laughing at Passi, who was intoxicated at the time, urinating at the gate.

When the victim entered the compound, Passi, who was still urinating, shouted profanities and asked what the other man was looking at.

The man told Passi that it was stupid to be urinating on the gate.

After he finished urinating, Passi began kicking and punching the gate, while shouting profanities and challenging the man to a fight.

The man ignored Passi. The wife said they had better go inside their house, but Passi opened the gate and assaulted the man. The wife ran inside their house and called for police assistance.

Passi threw a punch, but the man ducked. After the man punched Passi, Passi grabbed the man, lifted him off the ground, and slammed him against the concrete wall.

After the man hit Passi in the groin, Passi grabbed the man again and both struggled on the ground.

The man managed to get on top and pinned Passi down to the ground until responding Police Officer Joseph Magofna arrived and secured Passi.

The man, who complained of back pain and shortness of breath, was transported by emergency first responders to CHC. The man had scratches on his back, shoulders, arms and abdominal area, and complained of pain in his back and arms.

A Dandan resident, Passi had a laceration on his right eyebrow and abrasions on his face.
