
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Member for Burleigh Michael Hart has tabled a transcript of a conversation he had with a PUP official.

The Palmer United Party representative who asked the LNP Burleigh MP "what would I have to offer you to come over and join the Palmer United" has been referred to the parliamentary Ethics Committee.

The committee, chaired by LNP MP Michael Crandon, has been charged with investigating whether Michael Hart was offered an inducement by PUP emissary Jim McNally during a phone conversation on April 9.

Mr Hart recorded the conversation and released a transcript of it to parliament on May 6.

In the transcript, Mr McNally is recorded as saying the party had been given the names of 12 LNP MPs "that the party is not going to endorse for the next state election" and "I will give those people a call and see if they are interested in coming over and joining with the Palmer United and forming the opposition".

Mr Hart said there was "nothing you can offer me" and that he was "LNP through and through".

Mr Hart reported the matter to police. The Queensland Police Service later released a statement saying it would not take its investigation further.

On May 6, the same day the phone call transcript was released, Mr Hart wrote to Speaker Fiona Simpson about the matter.

On Tuesday, Simpson told parliament that she believed the "matter to be sufficiently serious to be considered by the ethics committee" and referred it.

The ethics committee is also currently investigating whether the man who published details of Gympie MP David Gibson's history, which had been protected by a statue of limitations under the Rehabilitated Offenders Act, had attempted to threaten or intimidate Mr Gibson.

Mr Gibson, who announced he would not re-contest his seat at the next election, remains on leave for health reasons.

The opening span of Riverwalk is commissioned on Tuesday, with boaties required to call Council and wait "5 to 8 minutes" for it to open.
