
Government efforts to fight the illegal drugs menace in the country is gaining more ground after P1.3 billion in illegal drugs, controlled precursors, and essential chemicals were seized while some 100 drug dens were dismantled in the first quarter of 2014 by the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA).

Undersecretary Arturo G. Cacdac Jr., PDEA director general, said the amount is 335 percent higher compared to the P312 million in illegal drugs, controlled precursors, and essential chemicals seized by the PDEA and other law enforcement agencies (OLEAS) for the same period in 2013.

“Compared to the preceding year, the increase in the total amount of confiscated dangerous drugs this year trebled owing to the recovered bricks of cocaine in Davao City,” Cacdac said. Cacdac disclosed that as the premier agency against illegal drugs in the country, the agency initiated the conduct of 3,141 anti-illegal drug operations from January to March this year.

Cacdac said their operations would not be a success without the full support of the Philippine National Police (PNP), National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), and OLEAs.

“This is 36.8 percent more than the operations conducted for the similar interval in 2013,” Cacdac said.

“As a result of increased conduct of operations, the number of drug personalities arrested likewise increased by 7.46 percent from last year’s 2,629 to 2,825 this year,” he added.

Cacdac said that PDEA has shifted its efforts to the neutralization of high-value targets and the conduct of high-impact operations, in response to President Aquino’s marching order to suppress the supply of illegal drugs in the country.

Cacdac said that 100 drug dens were dismantled from January to March 2014, compared to the 31 illegal facilities shut down during the same period last year, 222.58 percent increase, resulting in the neutralization of these one-stopshop facilities for drug users where dangerous drugs are sold and consumed.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
