
A fire that raged through one of London's most popular visitor attractions, causing the evacuation of 600 people and disrupting trains, has been extinguished.

Six fire engines and 35 firefighters and officers battled the blaze at busy Stables Market on Chalk Farm Road in Camden, north London last night.

A number of railway arches used as shops were alight. Around 600 people were evacuated from the area, including nearby buildings, before the London Fire Brigade arrived.

The Brigade was called at around 8pm yesterday and brought the blaze under control about two hours later. Fire crews from Kentish Town and  surrounding stations were at the scene.

The cause of the fire is not  known at this stage. No one has been reported injured.

Borough Commander Richard Welch, who was at the scene, said: 'When firefighters arrived they were faced with a fire in a range of shops under railway arches and the smoke could be seen from miles around.

'Thankfully no one is involved and there are no reports of injuries.'

Phillippa Kenyon-Shutes from Toastits, a food stall at Camden Market, said: 'There were fire men and water and police everywhere, it was like a warzone. It’s so sad because all the traders have lost everything.'

The world-renowned tourist hotspot attracts around 40 million visitors each year and has hundreds of retail, food and leisure shops.

A picture posted on Twitter showed thick smoke pouring out of an area of the market that contains a number of food stalls.

Talitha Cohen tweeted: 'My beautiful Camden is on fire! Making me so sad', while Cristina Narciso added: 'Poor #Camden... I hope the fire hasn't caused too much damage.'

As the blaze took hold, The fire brigade tweeted: 'Fire is in the roof voids of the shops at Stables Market in #Camden. We've stopped the fire from affecting the overhead passenger train line.'

Officers from the Metropolitan Police and British Transport Police were also at the scene and helped to impose a series of road closures.

On the evening of February 9 2008, a large fire broke out in Camden Canal Market. After crossing the railway line, the fire spread to the Hawley Arms pub.

The fire was put out during the night by 100 firefighters. It was caused by a banned liquid petroleum gas heater which had been left turned on in a clothes stall.

This morning the area surrounding the market remained sealed off and it is unclear when it will reopen.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
