
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

The Lyndon Township planning commission will meet Monday night to question representatives from McCoig Materials Inc. about their plans for a sand mine north of Chelsea.

The proposed mine has drawn the ire of many in the community, and two hearings — with a combined attendance of nearly 700 people — led to more than five hours of public comment, none of it in favor of the mine.

ForEnergy LLC, the consulting company hired by McCoig to find a suitable location for the mine, has not yet had a chance to publicly respond to the criticism of their plans, though they will likely do so at Monday’s meeting.

The proposed mine would be on the property at 18100 and 18200 M-52 , which is owned by the Donald and Janet L. Cunningham Trust. The land, near the corner of M-52 and North Territorial, incorporates one residential house and a telecommunications tower.

The site includes Stofer Hill, one of the highest points in Washtenaw County, which would be turned into a lake during the life of the mine, expected to be about 30 years.

ForEnergy founder and owner Tim Forell sat through all of the public commentary and has has been communicating with the Lyndon Township Planning Commission on behalf of McCoig. He said his company selected Stofer Hill as the proposed mining site due to the presence of the necessary minable materials, it’s location in a rural area and it’s proximity to a major road, M-52.

““When I see the passion [citizens are showing] we want to show empathy toward that and work with people. We respect their views,” he said after the last public meeting, held March 13.

Residents have raised a number of concerns including potential noise and air from the mine, destruction of natural resources and increased traffic in the area. The traffic question has also been a concern for Chelsea residents, the City Council and Chamber of Commerce.

Lyndon Township residents have also expressed that the presence of the mine would harm the township’s rural character and be hazardous to hikers and bikers who use the land and local roads.

The planning commission sent a long list of questions to ForEnergy that they were required to respond to by May 12. The meeting Monday is expected to include further dialogue between the planning commission and ForEnergy and its hired consultants.

McCoig Materials must secure special land use permits from the township and mining permits to follow through with the proposed mining operation. Local residents have expressed that they believe the special use permits should be denied on the ground that “very serious consequences” would result from the activity.

A law passed in Lansing in 2006 known as the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act prevents local municipalities from regulating mining or drilling for natural resources unless very serious consequences would result.

The law states that impact on existing land uses, the impact on property values in the vicinity and along the haul route, the impact on identifiable health, safety and welfare interests and the impact on pedestrian and traffic safety can be considered when determining whether the mine would lead to very serious consequences.

The meeting will be held May 19 at 6 p.m. at the auditorium in the Washington Street Education Center. The center is located at 500 E. Washington St.Chelsea, MI 48118.

The commission has also set a June 12 deadline for public written submissions.

According to a statement on the township’s website, “There is no ‘scheduled’ vote date. When the commissioners are comfortable with the information,

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
