
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) has asked that the post-2015 agenda should aim at ending hunger by 2025 by building resilience to various environmental, political and economic shocks that threaten food security and livelihoods.

Mr Shenggen Fan, IFPRI’s Director-General, said this at the just ended meeting on “Building Resilience for Food and Nutrition Security organised by the Institute.

IFPRI 2020 Vision Initiative noted that strengthened resilience in turn would be key to achieving an end to hunger.

He said many major shocks hit poor people and vulnerable communities hardest, and these groups also face constant threats of crop failure, disease, and accidents, adding, “ All of these shocks, large and small, combined with chronic poverty, contribute to the persistence of hunger and under nutrition”.

This, he explained, requires action and investments in the form of research and knowledge sharing, policy and programme prioritising, and scaling up of successful approaches especially for smallholder farmers.

Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Hailemariam Dessalegn, noted that to be a resilient country there is the need for a resilient agriculture system and invest in raising the productivity of small farmers.

“We also need to strengthen agricultural marketing systems, bring more land under irrigation, and reduce land degradation by soil and water conservation measures, including biological measures for sustainable land management,” he added.

Mr Kanayo F. Nwanze, President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development, said successful small farms, which are responsible for up to 80 per cent of the food produced in some countries could create vibrant rural areas that ensure a dynamic flow of economic benefits between rural and urban areas.

He explained that “Investing in the resilience of smallholder farmers is also investing in the resilience of food systems and communities and the balanced and sustained development of nations”.

He said resilience would pay dividends for fragile communities who today face environmental, economic, and nutritional bankruptcy.

For people in communities affected by droughts, floods, and other shocks, a resilience approach allows comprehensive action that both restores the productivity of people’s land and significantly improves their well-being.

Empowering resilient families to withstand shocks can reduce even by half the likelihood that children will become malnourished.

In the past five years alone, the world has witnessed a major earthquake in Haiti; drought in the Horn of Africa; an earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear crisis in Japan; and food price spikes in 2008, which still impact global food prices today.

In the past six months alone, Typhoon Haiyan has hit the Philippines; major flooding has struck the UK; civil conflict has continued in the Central African Republic, Syria, and South Sudan; landslides have ravaged Afghanistan; and a new disease called Middle East Respiratory Syndrome emerged on the Arabian Peninsula.
