
Jacqueline Kennedy letters [PHOTO] to Irish Priest, Newly discovered letters Jacqueline Kennedy wrote to an Irish priest reveal her fears about marrying President John F. Kennedy and her grief at his assassination.

Some 14 years worth of correspondence with Rev. Joseph Leonard, are set to be sold at auction in June.

In the letters , Jacqueline Kennedy compares the then-congressman's ambition to that of Macbeth. She also compared him to her father, John Vernou Bouvier.

"He's like my father in a way -- loves the chase and is bored with the conquest -- and once married needs proof he's still attractive, so flirts with other women and resents you. I saw how that nearly killed Mummy," she wrote.

After the president's assassination in 1963, she told Leonard she felt "bitter against God."

"I have to think there is a God -- or I have no hope of finding Jack again," she wrote. "God will have a bit of explaining to do to me if I ever see Him."

The letters are expected to fetch more than $1 million at auction in Dublin.

The Kennedy family always seems to remain in the news.

Michael Moore received attention in 2008 after calling on Caroline Kennedy to pull a Cheney by recommending herself for the vice presidential spot.

In 2013, Caroline Kennedy, a major Obama donor and the only surviving member of President John F. Kennedy's immediate family, was chosen to serve as the next U.S. ambassador to Japan.

Kennedy has been asked to take on the role and is being vetted, a Democratic source told CNN Monday.

Kennedy, who flirted with a Senate run in New York after Hillary Clinton became Secretary of State, backed both Obama runs and co-chaired his vice presidential search committee in 2008.

After she withdrew from Senate consideration for "personal reasons," Kennedy's name was floated by the political media for several possible diplomatic posts, including the United Kingdom and the Vatican.

Kennedy has degrees from Harvard and Columbia Universities, and held a variety of positions at non-profits including the JFK Library and the American Ballet Theatre.
