
AUSTRALIANS in Thailand are being warned to exercise a “high degree of caution” following the surprise declaration of martial law.

And it comes as soldiers encircle a pro-government “Red Shirts” protest in Bangkok, the rally leader said.

“We have been surrounded by troops on all sides,” Jatuporn Prompan told AFP.

The military is trying to convince the Red Shirts to end their gathering, according to Paradorn Pattanatabut, chief security adviser to Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan.

“The military is negotiating with the Red Shirts to disperse,” he said.

Meanwhile, the PM’s Secretary General Suranand Vejjajiva announced that the cabinet headed by Niwatthamrong has decided to hold an emergency meeting today, in order to assess the national situation.

Mr Suranand said that the public will be informed of the meeting’s result at its conclusion. He said the cabinet session will be conducted at an undisclosed safe house, the National News Bureau of Thailand reports.

An aid to the PM described the situation as “half a coup d’etat”, CNN reports, despite the military saying its about maintaining peace and order.

Soldiers entered several private television stations that are sympathetic to protesters. Anti-government TV channel Blue Sky has now gone off air, travel blogger Richard Barrow tweeted from Thailand this afternoon.

So far Channels MV 5, DNN, UDD, Asia Update, P&P, 4 Channel, Blue Sky, FMTV, T News and ASTV have also been told to stop broadcasting.

Thailand’s army made the move before dawn today to restore order across the crisis-gripped kingdom, following six months of anti-government protests that have left 28 people dead and hundreds wounded.

It comes a day after caretaker Niwattumrong refused to step down.

“We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution in Thailand due to the possibility of civil unrest and the threat of terrorist attack. You should pay close attention to your personal security at all times and monitor the media for information about possible new safety or security risks,” DFAT says.

An announcement on military-run television said martial law had been invoked “to restore peace and order for people from all sides”, stressing that the move “is not a coup”.

“The public do not need to panic but can still live their lives as normal,” it added.

Today, the Thai military’s declaration of martial law must be temporary and not undermine democracy, the United States said.

The United States is concerned about the political crisis in Thailand and urges “all parties to respect democratic principles, including respect for freedom of speech,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement.

“We understand the Royal Thai Army announced that this martial law declaration is not a coup. We expect the Army to honour its commitment to make this a temporary action to prevent violence, and to not undermine democratic institutions,” Psaki said.

Thailand’s embattled government was not consulted in advance by the military about the declaration of martial law, but it is still in power, said the chief security adviser to Niwattumrong.

“The caretaker government still exists with Niwattumrong as caretaker prime minister. Everything is normal except the military is responsible for all national security issues,” Paradon Pattanatabut said.

The imposition of martial law risks angering supporters of the government if it is seen as tantamount to a coup.

The dismissal of prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra earlier this month in a controversial court ruling has sent tensions soaring in the kingdom, which has endured years of political turmoil.

Shinawatra was removed from office along with nine cabinet ministers and subsequently indicted by the country’s anti-graft body.

If the country’s senate votes to impeach her, she could be banned from politics for five years.

Her “Red Shirt” supporters have warned of the threat of civil war if power is handed to an unelected leader, as demanded by the opposition.

Anti-government protesters refuse to participate in elections and say Yingluck’s Puea Thai party administration lacks the legitimacy to govern.

They are calling on the upper house of parliament, the senate, to invoke a vaguely worded clause in the constitution to remove caretaker Prime Minister Niwattumrong and appoint a new leader.

The Election Commission said last week that a general election scheduled for July 20 was “no longer possible” as polls could not be held without the support of the protesters.

An election held in February was annulled after demonstrators blocked voting.

Thailand’s army has staged 11 successful coups since the end of absolute monarchy in 1932.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
