
Guam - Over a hundred island residents turned out at Okkodo High    School Saturday, most, expressing opposition to what is proposed in the    Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement on the military    buildup.

It was the first of 3 planned public hearings on the Draft SEIS. And  it was the firing range proposal north of  Northwest Field and its  impact on the Ritidian Refuge that drew the most opposition.

"I am for the buildup up" declared one elderly Chamorro man who said he was 82 years old. "You never know the value of freedom until you lose it", he said.

Someone from the audience then yelled out "How much land do we have to give up for freedom?"

The man went on to say 7-thousand Marines gave up their lives for Guam. "Sure they used the bases. Sure, they probably exploited us. But our   people then were so glad the Marines gave their lives to liberate us,   now we gotta reciprocate."

Guam Chamber of Commerce Presdient David Leddy declared the Chamber's support. "We strongely support the military buildup and H.R. 4402"  and "we hope that the Legislature will find bi-partisan support to help move this process forward without any further delay."

Christopher Bejado said  his family strongly opposes locating the firing range complex  at  Northwest Field, as well as opposing the creation of a "Surface Danger   Zone" over part of the Refuge below. He is a second generation decedent  of an original   Ritidian Landowner. His family, and others, lay claim  to a parcel of   land within the Refuge that was taken away by the U.S.  Military in   1962.

"In 1991 the area known as Ritidian was  deemed excess by the   U.S. Military ... and based on the Federal  Government protocol the  land  was snatched up by the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife and turned into a  wildlife  refuge", said Bejado. "At the time our local  government did nothing to assist the Ritidian families to fight to  regain these lands."

Later, one young veteran asked "Were is this respect? ... Your         going to put this firing range in our back yards. What about  those        who've seen combat?  What about providing social workers  and   facility      services for those?"

Military realignment Buildup Chair, Senator Frank Aguon Jr.  said there is no provision in the Draft SEIS "to provide alternative public access to the areas that are  not  restricted when the live fire training range is in operation." He said he would like to see an alternative access route to the unrestricted areas.

Tamuning resident John Robertson spoke in favor of the buildup and in favor of putting of the firing range at Northwest Field.  "We live in a dangerous world", he said. "Some  moderate restrictions on access to a small portion of Ritidian is, in  my opinion, a small sacrifice for us in exchange for our local security and in fulfilling our responsibility towards national defense."

"I'm hear today to say very clearly  that I do not support the military, quote, unquote 'buildup'", said "We  Are Guahan's " Victoria Leon Guerrero. "First and foremost I really don't believe increasing the military    presence on our islands ... is the future I want to leave for my    children."

"I also don't believe that it is being carried  out in the way   that our Governor and all of his press releases in  respect of his quote   unquote '4 Pillars'", said Leon Guerrero. "First of all, Pagat is not off the table. It remains one of the 5 alternatives for the firing range" and "4 of those 5 options do require the takings of our lands" she said.

Guam Boonie Stompers' Dave Lotts again raised the point that it is  misleading to say that the  proposed  firing range complex would be  located on Northwest Field. "This  is  not going to be on Northwest  Field. Its in an area north of Northwest  Field in  an area called  Talela which is limestone forest."

Financial Adviser Carl Peterson said "Expanding our economy is absolutely essential if we're going to raise ourselves up financially. And this is going to help us."

Department of Public Works Director Carl Pangelinan spoke about the    millions of dollars in funding that the Department of Defense has    provided to pay for road improvement projects on Guam.
