
NEW DELHI: While every department is ready with plans to welcome the new government, the disinvestment department is unsure on the mandate awaiting it.

Narendra Modi's emphasis on strong public sector units in Gujarat means the incoming prime minister may choose to revive state-run companies rather than selling them off.

Any deviation from the outgoing government's strategy of raising money through disinvestment would pose a major challenge to the finance ministry, because it would have to then find other resources to plug the budget gap - that too at a time when many expect the new government to loosen its purse strings to help quicken economic growth. The interim budget presented in February had projected as much as Rs 52,000 crore in proceeds from stake sales.

A senior official said the new government may not abort the proposed sale of minority stakes in Hindustan Zinc and Bharat Aluminium Co, because it already has all the approvals. But, he isn't that sure on the rest of the companies that are lined up for stake sales.

"The Modi model could be to continue with vanilla disinvestment (keeping majority holding while selling stakes) in profitable PSUs, and strategic sale in some firms which are beyond revival or the government has already diluted stake," he said. But the government will likely maintain majority stakes in all its companies and the focus will be on the revival of companies which are sick, this official added.

Some analysts also have similar views. CLSA has cited the example of Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals, a company controlled by the government of Gujarat, which has turned around after making a loss of Rs 400 crore in fiscal 2003. "Modi gave a freehand to the top bureaucrats in negotiating a turnaround without any political interference.

Now it makes a 15% RoE (return on equity)," CLSA said. The research firm also pointed out the autonomy given to PSUs in Gujarat, as in the case of Gujarat State Petroleum Corp which acquired Gujarat Gas from British Gas.

But going slow on disinvestment may leave the central government with only limited room to manage its finances, which are already in a bad shape with slow economic growth affecting tax revenue. "It is not clear what stand on disinvestment the new government may take. But if the government decides against divesting its stake in PSUs, then there will be a huge challenge," a finance ministry official said.

Jagannadham Thunuguntla, strategist and head of research at SMC Global Securities, said disinvestment was required to control India's burgeoning fiscal deficit. "(But) if they have a concrete plan to control fiscal deficit management, then they may not require it at all," he said.

The outgoing government in its interim budget for 2014-15 had projectedRs 36,925 crore from selling stakes in state-run companies, and anotherRs 15,000 crore through sale of its minority stake in companies that have already been privatised.

If the new government decides to follow the same strategy as the previous BJP government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee, some 17 sick PSUs, which include Scooters India, Hindustan Cable and little known Richardson & Cruddas, could be put on the block. The Board for Restructuring of Public Sector Enterprises has recommended their revival through joint venture or disinvestment.

"This (recommendation) essentially means strategic sale, but the central government will find it difficult to find buyers as these firms only have land, which also is on lease," said a government official.
