
Share This Story!

Louisiana’s 2012 budget was stoked with the second-highest percentage of federal funds among all 50 states, a study of state budgets shows, and a look at the proposed 2014-15 budget shows the trend continues.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

BATON ROUGE – Louisiana’s 2012 budget was stoked with the second-highest percentage of federal funds among all 50 states, a study of state budgets shows, and a look at the proposed 2014-15 budget shows the trend continues.

Studies by the Pew Foundation and the Tax Foundation show 44.3 percent of all the money spent on state services comes from the federal government. Only Mississippi, with 45.8 percent of its budget federal dollars, depends more on Washington.

Nationally, state governments received 32.8 percent of their total general revenues from the federal government in the 2012 fiscal year, the studies show.

Following Mississippi and Louisiana are South Dakota (41.5 percent), Tennessee (41.3 percent) and Missouri (40.8 percent). Alaska tops the state receiving the smallest share of federal revenues (20 percent), followed by North Dakota (21 percent), Hawaii (23.6 percent), Connecticut (23.7 percent), and Virginia (24.8 percent).

The leading factor in this phenomenon is poverty, researchers and state officials said.

The higher the poverty level, the more federal funds come in to provide health care, food stamps and other family services. U.S. Census figures show 19.9 percent of the state’s population lived under the poverty level in 2012, third worst behind Mississippi’s 24.2 percent and New Mexico’s 20.8 percent.

Fannin chairs the House Appropriations Committee, which revised the Jindal administration budget before the full House sent it to the Senate for consideration.

Medicaid funds health care for a large part of the state’s indigent, uninsured and underinsured population.

Fannin’s estimation of the reason the state budget is heavily federally funded is backed up by the Tax Foundation, Gov. Bobby Jindal’s administration and the heads of the Louisiana Budget Project, the Council for a Better Louisiana and the Public Affairs Research Council.

“There are a lot of factors and one of the big ones is Medicaid,” said Liz Malm, who wrote the report for Tax Foundation.

Pomerleau cited a Kaiser Foundation report that says 27 percent of Louisiana’s population is enrolled in Medicaid. The national average is 21 percent.

He said the average Medicaid payment is $5,100 per person enrolled.

But there’s another factor that makes Louisiana’s percentage of federal funds higher that most states, Pomerleau said.

Louisiana’s lower-than-average income contributes to both factors.

Jan Moller, director of the Louisiana Budget Project, said Louisiana is basically a poor state and “as a poor state, we get a higher Medicaid match from the federal government than do richer states,” and that’s one reason the federal-to-state funding ratio is high.

CABL President Barry Erwin also said the high federal-to-state ratio is due to different factors.

Moller also raised the question of whether the federal funding in the report was boosted by hurricane recovery funds still flowing into the state in 2012.

Meghan Parrish of the governor’s Division of Administration said disaster recovery funds made up 26 percent of the federal funds in the 2012 budget.

Federal funds for Hurricane Katrina damage repairs tapered off but the state also got some federal economic recovery funds.

The 2012-13 actual $24.21 billion state budget shows $8.276 billion in state general fund revenue (taxes), just over $2 billion in self-generated revenue (fees imposed by state agencies), $4.1 billion in statutory dedications (a combination of tax and self-generated revenue) and about $200 million from other sources — a total state funding of $14.57 billion.

Federal funding in the budget that year totaled $9.52 billion.

In the proposed $24.99 billion budget being considered in the Senate, state general funds total $8.617 billion in state general funds, $2.45 billion in self-generated revenue and $4 billion in statutory dedications, a total of $15.38 billion in state funds.

Federal funds total $9.88 billion in the current proposed budget.

In either year, federal funds were slightly less than the state generated in tax revenue when a portion of statutory dedications is considered general funds.

Fannin said “a portion of that money in statutory dedications would be state general funds if somebody hadn’t dedicated it” for a specified use.

“Another large piece of the budget is the education system,” Fannin said.

The state gets a sizable amount of federal funds for grants, special education, school lunches and other programs.
