
According to the 2014-2017 program, the Armenian government will remain committed to the protection of the state’s rights on the international arena, reinforcement of the security component, establishment of regional stability and development of regional economy, strengthening of Armenia’s involvement and positions in regional and international processes.

On the foreign policy field, the government attaches importance to the peaceful settlement of the Karabakh conflict, the international recognition and condemnation of the Armenian Genocide, the further deepening and expansion of strategic relations with the Russian federation, reinforcement of friendly partnership with the US, development and reinforcement of bilateral relations with European countries.

The government priorities include: further development of relations with immediate neighbors – Georgia and Iran, normalization of relations with Turkey without preconditions, development of cooperation with China, India, Japan and other Asian countries, as well as the African states, Canada, Latin America and the traditional partners in the Middle East.

The government program envisages ensuring the membership in the Eurasian Economic Union, the Customs Union and the Common Economic Area, deepening of cooperation within the CSTO framework, continuous development and expansion of relations with the European Union, formation of a new framework of cooperation with the EU.

It is expected to deepen the mutually beneficial cooperation with the CIS participating states and actively participate in processes within the framework of the CIS, protect Armenia’s rights in the UN, OSCE, the Council of Europe and other international organizations, continue the political dialogue with NATO, consistently implement the Armenia-NATO Individual Partnership Action Plan, develop relations with the international and regional financial organizations.

In its program for 2014-2017 the Armenian Government plans to ensure economic growth through a middle-term GDP growth of 5%.

In the coming three years the government intends to raise the minimum salary to 65,000 AMD, reduce the poverty level with up to 10%. Currently the minimum salary in the country is 45 thousand AMD.

In the coming three years the development based on internal resources will be of primary importance for ensuring Armenia’s economic growth. The government plans to increase the volume of exports mostly thanks to the export-oriented industrial program, which envisages efficient use of internal resources.

The Government Program will now be forwarded to the National Assembly.

Reproduction on full or in part is prohibited without reference to Public Radio of Armenia.
