
Share This Story!

The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Henry Alley, left, and Austin Gray spend their eighth anniversary at a "freedom to marry" vigil at the The Wayne L. Morse United States Courthouse April 22, 2014 in Eugene, Ore.

Oregon might be the next state to allow same-sex marriage. Federal Judge Michael McShane said he'll rule Monday on a constitutional challenge to the state's same-sex marriage ban . Democratic Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum called the ban legally indefensible and refused to offer arguments supporting it. State officials have said same-sex marriages could begin almost immediately after a decision.

Jill Abramson, the recently ousted New York Times executive editor, is to give Monday's commencement address at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. Abramson has not spoken publicly since her dismissal, so everyone will be waiting to see if she addresses the issue during her speech. Arthur Sulzberger Jr., Times publisher, denied Saturday that sexism played a role in his decision to fire Abramson as the newspaper's executive editor.

Raj Shah, head of the U.S. Agency for International Development, is expected to announce Monday a $5 million partnership with Texas A&M University's World Coffee Research center to try to eliminate a devastating coffee disease . The fungus has caused more than $1 billion in damage across Latin America and is especially deadly to Arabica coffee, the bean that makes up most high-end, specialty coffees. Already, it is affecting the price of some of those coffees in the United States.

The San Antonio Spurs take on the Oklahoma City Thunder in the first game of the best-of-seven Western Conference finals series. The Thunder are without their third-best player, Serge Ibaka, but the Spurs know they still have their work cut out for them against a team that has beaten them 10 of the last 12 times they've played. The Miami Heat dropped Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals to the Indiana Pacers 107-96, in a surprisingly one-sided game.

British drug maker AstraZeneca rejected Monday what its New York-based rival Pfizer called over the weekend its "final" takeover offer. Pfizer's sweetened offer valued AstraZeneca at around $116 billion. The takeover would have created the world's largest drugs company. AstraZeneca said the deal would not be good for its shareholders.
