
At the same time, it is already clear that in two eastern provinces, where 14 percent of the electorate lives, balloting will be next to impossible, thanks to forcible disruption by Russian-backed militants. The United States and its European allies have said they will impose additional sanctions on Russia if it disrupts the election or fails “to use its influence to prevent those efforts,” as White House spokesman Jay Carney put it last week. Six days before the election, that failure is blatantly evident.

Russian President Vladi­mir Putin seems to think that he can avoid responsibility for the disruption with rhetoric that suggests the opposite of Moscow’s actual behavior. For the third time, Mr. Putin announced Monday that the 40,000 Russian troops deployed on Ukraine’s border were withdrawing; for the third time, NATO’s secretary general and the White House said they had detected no such movement.

The empty announcements may at least mean that Mr. Putin has set aside the option of an overt military invasion of eastern Ukraine for the time being. But dozens of operatives of Russia’s military intelligence service have been spotted in eastern Ukraine, where they have directed takeovers of government buildings. Mr. Putin could use those forces to clear the way for Sunday’s voting, or at least withdraw them and their sophisticated weapons so that the Ukrainian army could clear the remaining rebels. He has made no move to do so.

In the coming days, the focus of U.S. and other Western officials will be, appropriately, on supporting the staging of the elections. Negotiations between the interim government and representatives of the eastern regions are also worth encouraging, though they appear unlikely to produce results in the short term. But President Obama, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other E.U. leaders must also confront the reality that the latest “red line” they drew for Mr. Putin has been ignored. That must lead to the consequences they have promised: meaningful sanctions on the pillars that prop up the Russian economy.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
