
Standards - and pants - have been slipping in the Tennessee city of Pikeville, where the mayor has decided things have gotten as low as they can go.

Mayor Phil Cagle is the author of an ordinance that will soon see anyone wearing their pants 'more than three inches below the top of the hips' fined for public indecency.

Pikeville is just the latest place in the U.S. to take issue with where young men position their trousers.

'Injurious to health': Pikeville's ordinance bans saggy pants on the basis of indecency - and that it could harm wearers by causing them to adopt an 'improper gait'

Two in Louisiana, Jefferson Davis and Terrebonne Parish have passed ordinances in recent months banning the public wearing of saggy pants with hefty fines for those who choose not to belt up, and others have followed suit in Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi.

'All I know is we just don’t want them running around half-naked on our streets,'  Cagle told the Times Free Press .

'That’s the bottom line.'

The City Council of Pikesville unanimously approved the ordinance, which will require anyone guilty letting their pants hang 'more than three inches below the top of the hips (crest of the ilium)' to pay a fine of $25 for the first offense, and $50 for each offense thereafter.

'Myself and the City Council, we wanted an ordinance passed in black and white that our officers know what to tolerate and what not to tolerate,' Cagle told the Times Free Press.

'Now they know what we expect, and they know how to handle it.'

Pikeville's ordinance purports to be for the health of its citizens.

It states that 'there is evidence that indicates that wearing sagging pants is injurious to the health of the wearer as it causes improper gait.'

The trend for wearing the pants very low on the hips may have originated in the U.S. prison system, where inmates are not allowed to wear belts.

The look was adopted by hip hop culture and by the 1990s, young men around the country were wearing their pants perilously low with underpants-clad buttocks on prominent display.

Even the President addressed the trend in 2008: ‘Brothers should pull up their pants,' Obama said.

Civil Liberties groups have in the past argued that such bans are ‘unconstitutional’ under the 14th Amendment, which says no citizen should be deprived of ‘life, liberty or property’ and no person should be denied equal protection of the law.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
