
"Through its Volunteer Fire Assistance (VFA) program, the Virginia Department of Forestry (VDOF) awarded more than $199,000 in grants to 140 volunteer fire departments (VFDs) across the Commonwealth. The grants – ranging in size from $315 to $2,435 – will be used by the VFDs for such purchases as personal protective equipment, communications gear, water tanks for brush trucks, wildland fire specialty tools and training materials.

Volunteer fire departments provide VDOF with receipts for their equipment purchases. Under the terms of the grant, VDOF reimburses the volunteer fire departments up to the amount approved for their eligible purchases.

A total of 171 fire departments applied for grants this year, and 140 were approved. The requests for support totaled more than $1.1 million – far more than the $199,942.89 VDOF had available. Since the VFA program began in 1975, the VDOF has awarded more than $3.4 million to volunteer fire departments throughout the Commonwealth. Funding for the grant program is provided by the U.S Forest Service.

Note: A list of VFDs and the amounts of their grants (alphabetically by county) is on the [attached] spreadsheet.

The Virginia Department of Forestry protects and develops healthy, sustainable forest resources for Virginians. Headquartered in Charlottesville, the Agency has forestry staff members assigned to every county to provide citizen service and public safety protection across the Commonwealth, which it’s been doing now for 100 years. VDOF is an equal opportunity provider.

With nearly 16 million acres of forestland and more than 103,000 Virginians employed in forestry, forest products and related industries, Virginia forests provide an overall economic output of more than $17 Billion annually."

Copyright © 2014 by WCYB. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

A Carter County corrections officer has been terminated amid an investigation into an assault on an inmate.

A Washington county, Virginia man was arrested this morning after drinking and driving in the parking lot of an elementary school.

Ten-year-old Noah Cordle kicked off his summer vacation by dipping his toes into the Atlantic Ocean, only to make an ancient discovery when a sharp object hit his foot.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
