
— Windsor Mayor Paul Beazley wants people to look beyond the recent Municipality of West Hants decision to create its own fire department.

“To me, this is more a question of how governance is done in Nova Scotia; we have to look at the big picture,” Beazley said from his office Saturday.

Referring to the recent Ivany report on Nova Scotia’s economic recovery and sustainability, Beazley said citizens need to look at new ways of doing things like consolidation of services and municipal reform.

But the ongoing issue between West Hants and the Windsor Fire Department is a contractual matter, Dauphinee said.

Last Wednesday, West Hants council voted not to continue with a longstanding Windsor Fire Department contract. According to Coun. Victor Swinamer (Falmouth), council was “blindsided” by the warden and the deputy, who put the motion before council.

Council chose to sever ties with the fire service in a 6-3 vote.

Swinamer said council’s three newest members are against the move. The three also represent areas served by the Windsor Fire Department, he said.

Dauphinee acknowledged the motion was made during a very long council session but sounded Monday like he was not ready to call it a day with the fire service.

Dauphinee reiterated his position that the municipality, rather than paying a lump sum payment to the department, should receive an itemized bill breaking down capital and service costs.

“It’s about accountability,” Dauphinee said.

The municipality plans to build one or two fire stations to service Falmouth and the Three Mile Plains-Garlands Crossing areas.

It contributes about $500,000 a year to the Windsor department for fire protection services.

Beazley and Dauphinee agree that the area is well served by the department. But Beazley said he’s disappointed by West Hant’s move.

The mayor said the situation is not the result of a municipal conflict.

“This is a Windsor fire service contract issue,” he said.

The Town of Windsor will continue to work with and support the department.

Meanwhile, Swinamer says West Hants has not paid for the fire services it has been getting from Windsor for over a year.

“Service Nova Scotia or someone has to step in to settle this,” he said.

Beazley said duplication of services is not the way to go.

Swinamer agreed that more co-operation is needed between the municipalities.
