
Religious extremists and hate groups are putting the country at a crossroads at which point every Malaysian is now taking a second look at what Malaysia has become.

At this point, the prime minister must be brave enough to take a decisive action stop the attack on Christians and on other races in Malaysia.

Recent events in the country had radically changed the image of the country in the international community and the actions of these extremists are fast tearing the multiracial fabric of the nation apart.

The damage caused is not that easy to mend and it will put the courage of the government, particularly the prime minister to test in taking the right decision and action to stop them.

The people are wondering and curious about the deafening silence on the part of the prime minister, whom they expect to lead the country.

All we can hear is some ministers calling for calm and patience.

This runs counter to the 1Malaysia slogan that he launched immediately after being sworn in as the prime minister and used during and after the last general election.

Today, few Malaysians take that slogan seriously because of what is happening.

Some even interpret the silence of the government as tacit support for those sowing discontent, following admission from the government that it had funded Perkasa.

I, therefore, join those who demand that action must be taken to apply the full force of the law of the land on those people.

Seputh MP Teresa Kok had been charged in court with sedition for her Chinese New Year video but no action had been taken against Datuk Ibrahim Ali who uttered the most seditious and dangerous words when he said he was prepared to launch “parang salib”.

He should have been arrested immediately.

The organisers of a forum in UiTM must be made to account for what they have done.

For that we are thankful that Christians, true to the teaching of Christianity, did not react to the attack. If they are to engage Muslims in a religious debate surely they have a lot arguable issues to present.

However, no one wins in a religious debate.

The emergence of racial and religious extremism is beyond the expectation and imagination of Malaysians who have been living in peaceful co-existence for half a century.

The people of Sabah and Sarawak are especially dismayed by what is happening in the peninsula.

The promise of the founding fathers of Malaysia was a vision of a country where everybody lived together in harmony without racial and religious discrimination.

With all that is happening, it seems that the dream and vision had been shattered.

The strong and unequivocal stand by the chief minister of Sarawak gives a ray of hope to those from the Bornean states and I hope that the leadership of the Sabah government will take a similar stand.

The statement from the respected former mufti of Perlis is most encouraging.

It is clear that in the pit darkness of extremism, there is still ray of tolerance and peace.

I believe that what he said rings loud in every heart and head of peace-loving Malaysians.

I also welcome the announcement by the police that a special task force had been set up to investigate the attack on two nuns recently.

I hope that the investigation will result in a quick solution. We have full confidence on the capability of our police force.

Meanwhile, APS is against the implementation of hudud in the country as it runs against the Malaysia Agreement 1963, and as well as the Constitution.

We do not question the desire of Muslims to implement hudud as it is the law of their religion, however, the country was formed on a secular set-up and it cannot be changed 50 years down the line.

Malaysia must continue as what the founding fathers had intended and promised. – May 19, 2014.

* Datuk Seri Wilfred M Bumburing is president of Angkatan Perubahan Sabah (APS).

* This is the personal opinion of the writer or publication and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malaysian Insider.
