
WINDHOEK – A new battle over Cabinet’s beef export allocations for the Norwegian market could erupt after the Minister of Trade and Industry Calle Schlettwein threatened legal action against a local weekly newspaper.

In the advertisement in New Era, Schlettwein stated that all allegations made in the weekly newspaper were baseless and devoid of any truth.

“I therefore, in the strongest terms, reject the gratuitous and highly defamatory suggestion that I misled Cabinet. In view of the serious nature of the allegations in particular the unwarranted and reckless suggestion of dishonesty on my part, the matter is now being handled by my legal practitioners on the basis of whose advice and next course of action will be followed,” Schlettwein warned.

Martin added that Witvlei Meat had reported the minister’s conduct to the relevant authorities.

During the previous  three years the usual allocation of 1 600 tonnes of meat was done on a 50:50 basis between Witvlei Meat and Meatco, but with the entrance of BMP Cabinet decided the quota should be allocated on a bidding basis and that role-players comply with certain criteria.

However, Martin said the criteria put Witvlei Meat at a disadvantage because the criteria were vague and unclear.

Martin previously warned the reduced  quota could result in the closure of the abattoir and the loss of 165 jobs, which would deprive more than 600 dependants of their main source of income in the Omaheke Region, which is suffering from the second highest unemployment rate in the country.

Martin pointed out that Brukarros was known to have export certification for sheep and game (venison) for several years already, but not beef, adding that Cabinet’s previous decision to split the quota equally, had a provision that it would be reviewed once eligible new beef entrants applied.

He referred to an advert placed that said only invited beef approved facilities should apply for a quota, and also the minister’s submission to Cabinet, legally obtained through a court process and now in the public domain.

“Under the minister’s leadership the quota issue has turned into an intolerable ridicule of process, power and position, and an embarrassment to Namibia,” Martin was quoted as having said.
