
The words of Dr. Martin Luther King still ring true and their relevancy has not diminished, for in fact: they have never been more relevant!  We are presently witnessing for the first time in our history, the church must find favor in the courts in order to remain a practicing Christian.  Religious persecution is now a reality in a nation that claimed God birthed them and vowed to remain under His auspices.  Still without much clamor from "we the people" this scourge promises to encroach upon everything deemed to be Christian under the legislative pretense of "Civil Rights."  Political Correctness, the subliminal term for, Anti-Christ, has subdued its victims by portraying itself as a "Human Right," thereby ignoring completely the rights of persons who are directly or indirectly affected by the exercise of their assumed rights.  I have often said, "It is intellectually dishonest to claim a right for yourself, and in so doing, take away the rights of someone else."  Ironically, the issues with government Dr. Martin Luther King faced 53 years ago, are in reality, not much different today, especially under this present administration.  Consider the premise, "The President has the Power..." Below is an excerpt from Dr. Martin Luther King's essay – of the same name – written in February of 1961 which exenterates the core problem religious organizations are currently in opposition at the highest court of the land.

"If we examine the total of all judicial executive and legislative acts of the past three decades and balance them against the sum needed to achieve fundamental "change," two startling conclusions are inescapable.  The first is the hopeless inadequacy of measures adopted – pitifully insufficient in scope and limited in conception.  The second conclusion is even more disturbing...  Federal action has not been only inadequate, viewed as a whole it has been self nullifying.  In 1954 the Supreme Court declared school segregation to be unconstitutional.  Yet, since then federal executive agencies and vast federal legislative programs have given millions of dollars yearly to educational institutions which continue to violate the Supreme Court decision.  These illustrations can be multiplied many times.  The shocking fact is that while the government moves sluggishly, and in patchwork fashion, to achieve equal rights for all citizens, in the daily conduct of its own massive economic and social activities it participates directly and indirectly in the denial of these rights.  We must face the tragic fact that the federal government is the nation's highest investor in segregation."

Can we say the same today?  The first obligation of government is to protect its citizen's lives and uphold their rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  Yet, after the empirical proof that Planned Parenthood, the largest abortion provider in America, targets African-Americans for the sole purpose of diminishing the numbers of live births of minority women, a 'blind eye' is turned and nothing is done to stop this segregated madness.  This "Black Genocide" as documented in the documentary, "MAAFA 21" produced by Life Dynamics, has a nullifying consequence upon the rights of one segment of society in the pretense of granting a right to another, for "a person is a person no matter how small." Not only has this created horrific psychological and physiological problems for women who undergo the abortion procedure itself, but it has denied over 20 million African-Americans – 55 million overall – the American Dream, of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

"The President has the Power..." essay focused on the Brown vs. Board of Education Supreme Court case declaring school segregation unconstitutional.  Dr. Martin Luther King eviscerated and exposed the hypocrisy of the Federal Government and its disregard to enforce the edict by noting the Government continued sending millions of dollars to segregated educational institutions which violated the Supreme Court decision.  Today in our urban communities, the civil right of an education for African-Americans is being grossly violated in similar fashion.  The Federal Government is aware of the much documented failing schools and abysmal graduation rates.  In New York alone the graduation rates of African-American children are 31%.  This is appalling and it is not made any easier for these mothers, a large percentage of whom, are the head of their households.  Due to their Zip Code, and circumstances beyond their control, they must raise their children alone and then send them to a school which the state itself has determined to be a failing educational institution, segregated by its un-remediated appalling failure.  Rightfully so, Dr. Alveda King, the niece of Dr. Martin Luther King, has called it "... one of the most glaring Civil Rights violations of our time."

The Feds answer?  Throw more of our hard-earned money to aid and abet a failing system benefiting the Teachers Union, and not the African-American children for whom they are hired to serve and educate.  As well: obscure outcomes; increase the school district size adding jobs where people who are on the payroll have never been seen on the job; diminish test scores; corrupt an education system such that a billion dollars is found missing from the school construction fund in New jersey and nobody to this date has been held accountable.  But when the threat of another system which would eventually eradicate the present failing system was piloted in Washington, DC, and was documented as working successfully in the African-American Community, it was ended due to pressure from the Teachers Union!  Again, as Dr. King pointed out in 1961, the Federal Government was the highest investor in segregation or racism in America as it is now in the segregated educational outcomes for African-American children.

Obamacare, is clearly the most intrusive anti-religious legislation passed since slavery.  Once again – when our government is actually supposed to secure our rights – you now have to file suit against this same government in order to keep them.  Hobby Lobby, the family-owned arts and crafts business that has been the most high-profile plaintiff against Obamacare, asked the U.S. Supreme Court to protect it from being forced to violate their deeply held religious beliefs or be forced to pay severe fines.  Hobby Lobby asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review its case and decide whether the Green family will be required to provide and pay for life-terminating drugs and devices in violation of their religious beliefs.  Obamacare, if enacted – completely by design – will expedite the destruction of African-American Children within the womb.  It is not surprising at all that the leading killer of African-Americans is Planned Parenthood, Obamacare's greatest supporter and advocate.  Amazingly Eric Holder, the Attorney General of the United States, who had been 'Fast and Furious' in supplying guns to be tracked to find Drug Dealers – which wound up supplying guns to murderers who killed US citizens – has been slow and silent in defending and upholding the laws of marriage.  Yet, in an 'ironic' twist, the U.S. Department of Justice has filed a Federal Civil Rights Lawsuit against the School District of Philadelphia, claiming a rule regulating the length of employees' beards constitutes 'religious discrimination.'  School police officer, Siddiq Abu-Bakr, maintained an untrimmed beard for the 27 years he worked at the district, the suit states.  Abu-Bakr is a member of the Islamic faith, which he says requires that he not cut his beard. "No employee should be forced to violate his religious beliefs in order to earn a living," said Spencer Lewis Jr., District Director of the EEOC's Philadelphia District Office.

Within the Barack Obama Administration, beards are protected due to religious convictions, and '...we the government...' can force you to give drugs that kill babies and also make you pay abortionists to murder them despite your religious objections....  Is this madness?  As you may recall, I asked the salient question in 2007: 'can America survive an "Obamanation"?'  The definition of Segregation: "The action or state of setting someone or something apart from other people or things, or being set apart." When a segment of our society has been denied by that society of its Civil Rights then the term 'segregation' is appropriately applied to that society that exercises it.  It would appear to me Dr. Martin Luther King's assessment of Government in America must also be ours today.

IS THE NATION'S HIGHEST INVESTOR IN SEGREGATION."

The views expressed by RenewAmerica columnists are their own and do not necessarily reflect the position of RenewAmerica or its affiliates.

Rev. Dr. Clenard H. Childress, Jr., is the senior pastor of The New Calvary Baptist Church in Montclair, NJ. He is the founder of the website Blackgenocide.org and president of Life Education And Resource Network, Northeast. LEARN is the largest African-American pro-life group in the US. Rev. Childress is a leader in social activism and partners with the Center For Bioethical Reform, taking the Genocide Awareness Projects to college campuses around the country.

Rev. Childress and his wife Regina have 4 children: Clenard, Thomas, Tonya, and Tia.
