
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Carlee Posten Escue's letter to the editor " Our money aid Archdiocese " (May 18) regarding vouchers misses the mark.

She talks about the enormous monetary contribution Ohio taxpayers provide the Archdiocese, and states, "Catholic schools are the largest recipient of Ohio vouchers". Yes – voucher money does end up in the coffers of the Archdiocese. However, what is inherently missing in her argument is individuals receive vouchers, not Catholic schools. Voucher recipients then make a decision to choose Catholic schools. It's called freedom.

Ms. Escue appears to be okay with the Archdiocese's right to be "discriminatory and unapologetic". However, she believes Ohio taxpayers have should prohibit the use of taxpayers' funds  used to advance any form of "blatant public discrimination and ostracism". What does Ms Escue think about the enormous monetary contribution provided to government schools by Ohio taxpayers who send their children to private schools? If we apply her rationale, then taxpayers who fund government schools should also be able to "opt out" from paying taxes that are used to advance and promote LGBT lifestyles, hoaxes like man-made climate change, or other nonsense that has caused many to send their children to private schools or to home school.

There is a simple solution to this. If we believe the government has a role in funding primary and secondary education, as I do, then funding for all schools (government and private) should be provided through vouchers. If this were to come true, you would not see me writing letters opposing my tax dollars being used for vouchers that could ultimately end up in some government school. It would be the taxpayer's choice.

There are many good government schools and private schools, just as there are some bad ones. Let taxpayers choose, and you will see improvement in all schools and reduce these disagreements as well.
