
The State government has decided to set up a state-level prosecution board to review important criminal cases that have been quashed in courts and make appropriate recommendations to the government on re-appealing and fixing responsibility in case of any lapse.

Speaking to reporters, Home Minister K J George said the conviction rate has been going down over the years. It may be due to improper investigation or weak argument by government advocates.

There are multiple reasons for it. The board will look into these aspects and make recommendations to the government on steps to be taken, he added.

The government has, however, not yet held preliminary discussion on the constitution of the board and its nature.

 “I will be able to tell you as to who will head the board and how many members it will comprise after the first round of meeting which is expected to be held shortly,” the minister said.

Currently, the officials who are involved in prosecution are not held responsible.

The board will make them responsible. When the officials know that the government will review the cases, they work responsibly. This is the main intention of the move, he pointed out.

He, however, said the State police are functioning effectively and the rate of solving crimes is about 95 per cent in the State. An officer of the rank of Additional Director General of Police has been appointed as in charge of districts as far as law and order is concerned. The in-charge officer will review the law and order situation every month and report to the government, he added.

On increasing crimes, especially those involving gangsters, the Home Minister said the government has taken such cases seriously.

The Home department has already taken appropriate steps to control such incidents. But he refused to disclose the steps taken by the department.

He said the CID will submit its investigation report on the death of police sub-inspector Mallikarjuna Bande in Gulbarga in a week’s time.

George said the Home department is planning to transfer constables who are working in one place for more than five years with an intention to clean up the system.

 “Constables who are working in one place for several years have become inefficient.

They would have developed deep rooted contacts in one place. I have sought a report from the State police chief in this regard,” he said.
