
Sunday Morning firefighters from Marshfield helped raise a flag to honor the fallen.

"We had a line of duty death in 2013. On July 20th Lieutenant Matthew Blankenship passed away after injuries he sustained in a house fire. Today we are paying tribute to his sacrifice, and the sacrifices of other firefighters throughout the state," said Marshfield Fire Chief Michael Taylor.

It's a bittersweet ceremony held each year at the site of a monument dedicated to Missouri Firefighters.

"[Kingdom City is] home for the Missouri Firefighters Memorial . It was established 12 years ago and this is our 12th service," said Memorial Foundation Chairman, Keith Smith.

The service is filled with rich traditions.

"There are bag pipes and the color guard and proclamations and the setting of gear," Smith explained.

And of course the lasting honor, which is adding new names etched in stone to the memorial.

"There is a wall where the names of all those in the fire service who have died in the are placed, as well as firefighters that died outside of the line of duty," said Taylor.

"Today we have five line of duty [deaths]. Two of which occurred a very long time ago. One was in 1884, we knew nothing about and another in 1934. Both of those were in the Carthage area," said Smith.

"There's no limitations on time in line of duty," he added.

And for some, attending this somber yet beautiful ceremony in the company of other servicemen helps with healing.

"For several it's the final closure. What we try to do is honor not how they died, but how they served," said Smith.

This ceremony is held each year during the third week of May at the Fire Fighters Memorial of Missouri, which is located in Kingdom City. There are plans to build a firefighters museum on the site sometime in the near future.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
