
The  opening of bids for the construction of the P350 million Central Block  buildingof the Negros Oriental Provincial Hospital will be held on May 27, and construction is expected to start next month.

Provincial  Treasurer Danilo Mendez, a member of the Bids and Awards Committee, said the  province will no longer allow delays in the construction of the facility and the  project will start immediately after the opening of bids, and the declaration  of the winning contractor. This is to  comply with the 6-monthgrace period of the Monetary Board, he said.

In  the pre-bid conference of contractors and  suppliers recently, three big construction firms based in Manila and Cebu signified their intention to participate in  the bidding, and bought bid documents worth  P60,000 each.

The  provincial government assured that before August 20, 2014, it shall have gotten  the first tranche of the loan from the Development Bank of the Philippines, and  this will be released to the winning contractor.

Mendez  said local contractors may not be able to qualify for the bidding as one  requirement is experience in the construction of similar buildings.

He said the Department of Health has  set the standards for the construction of health facilities and one  is that such buildings can withstand calamities to ensure the safety of patients.

Gov.  Roel Degamo said the realization of this project will be “a dream come true” for all Negrenses, as the NOPH, with a bed capacity of 280, is usually  overcrowded.

He  had said earlier that the construction  of the Central Block building, started during the term of former Gov. Emilio  Macias II, is a priority of his administration.

Majority  of the previous members of the Sangguniang Panlalawigan, however, had bucked  the proposal, and that resulted in further  delays in securing a loan.

Degamo  said he wants the project to be fast-tracked to address the deplorable  condition of patients at the corridors  of the NOPH.

The  P350 million loan is payable in 15 years, with 156 equal monthly amortizations.
