
Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) in Brong-Ahafo have appealed to Government for an intervention to enable them to purchase artificial legs and limbs to enhance their movements.

LOGNET, an Accra-based NGO aims at ensuring the betterment of PWDs in the country.

The workshop funded by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was on the theme Empowering PWDs to Effectively Engage with Municipal/District Assemblies.

It was attended by 40 participants drawn from three identifiable groups, comprising Federation of the Blind, Association for the Deaf and Ghana Society for Persons with Disabilities (GSPD) in Brong-Ahafo.

The participants noted the cost of either an artificial leg or limb was not less than GHC1,500,00, stressing that was too much for an individual physically-challenged person without gainful employment.

Government’s assistance in that regard would therefore relieve members immensely of that financial burden, they stated.

The participants complained about the manipulation by officials of some Assemblies regarding the two per cent share of the District Assemblies’ Common Fund meant for PWDs and therefore appealed to the National Council for Disabilities to intervene.

Mr David Appiah, a Representative of UNDP, in a statement advised groups of PWDs in the Region to ensure their respective Assemblies involved them in decisions that directly or indirectly affected them.

Mr Appiah said it was only when their leadership showed the greatest degree of concern and interest in their own affairs by way of inclusiveness at Assemblies’ Meetings that they would get what is due them.

He told participants of sources where they could seek for both local and international assistance, but emphasised qualification for such aids was not for an individual member but groups.

Mr Francis Asong, Executive Director of VOICE GHANA, a NGO promoting the interest of PWDs in the Volta and Eastern Regions facilitated the workshop with a slide presentation on the theme Playing My Civic Roles and Responsibilities in the Affairs of My District Assembly.
