
Councilwoman  Virginia Gurrola replied at council meeting: 'It's hard to  just "grow a pair" when you're a 10-year-old girl'

A mayor has sparked outrage by suggesting victims of bullying should 'grow a pair' and 'just stick up for them damned selves'.

Cameron Hamilton, mayor or Porterville, California, made the remarks during a city council meeting earlier this month while discussing the issue of student safety.

A series of 'Safe Zones' around town had been proposed, whereby children could seek refuge from bullies.

But on the subject of the student-led programme, Hamilton said: 'I'm against bullying but I'm getting damn tired of it being used as a mantra for everything, and the ills of the world.

Melissa McMurrey of Gay Porterville said she felt attacked by the mayor's comments, given that some of the Safe Zones are mainly intended for young gay students.

'My feelings were really hurt and I was, essentially shocked by the end of it because it kind of felt like a little bit of a witch hunt, even though that was not the initial intention, from my understanding, of the Safe Zone project,' she told Abc 30 .

'It's an opportunity for the community to come together, as a whole, and say that we're not going to take this bullying in our town,' she said.

Porterville is a community of 55,000 residents 70 miles southeast of Fresno.

Hamilton, who was elected mayor in 2008 and whose terms runs until 2016, cast the only vote against further discussing the safety zones.

He said that although he is not anti-gay, he opposed the scheme because it would be expensive and expose the city to lawsuits if a Safe Zone became dangerous.

The proposal will now not be discussed at next week's council meeting.

Last year, the city was hit by controversy when the council rescinded a proclamation declaring June as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender pride month with a resolution calling June a month of community charity and good will to all.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
