
KATHMANDU, MAY 19 -   Constituent Assembly members have suggested making detailed and concrete provisions on issues related to the distribution of natural resources and revenue at the central, provincial and local levels while drafting a new constitution.

Commenting on the report  on natural resources, economic rights and distribution of revenue in the new federal set-up presented to the CA full house, lawmakers called for the removal of some vague provisions to prevent conflicts likely to arise if they are not properly addressed.

Speaking in Sunday’s session, they said Nepal should learn from the mistakes made by many countries in the past, by avoiding flawed policies on natural resources and revenue distribution.

They were deliberating on a report presented by the Committee to Study and Determine Constitutional Records (CSDCR). The report is related to the National Resources, Economic Rights and Revenue Distribution Committee of the first CA.

The CSDCR is tasked with studying the past records and preparing separate reports on agreed and disagreed issues. All the issues pertaining to natural resources and revenue were resolved by the previous CA.

said MJF-Nepal Chairman Upendra Yadav.

In federalism, all central, provincial and local governments will have the right to monitor the preservation and use of natural resources.

Although the report states that natural resources and revenue will be distributed in just manner, the CA members demanded that such provisions are insufficient. The report has also proposed the formation of a National Natural Resources Committee and National Finance Committee.

Both the commissions should be inclusive and the number of members increased from the proposed three, the CA members demanded.

“While drafting a constitution we should categorise the vital natural resources to ensure they are fairly distributed in the federal set-up,” said Nepali Congress lawmaker Min Bahadur Bishwokarma.

CA Chairman Subas Nembang said the suggestions will be forwarded to the Drafting Committee.

The Assembly is set to start discussion on the issue of federalism and distribution of state powers on Monday. The form of governance is another issue to be deliberated in the full house.

Committee to Study and Determine Constitutional Records presented two reports to the CA on Sunday, sorting out agreed and disputed issues of federalism. Key issues of federalism were left unsettled in the first CA.

The disputed issues will be forwarded to the Political Dialogue and Consensus Committee to find consensus among the political parties while agreed agenda will be provided to the Drafting Committee for inclusion in the constitution.

The number, demarcation and names of federal states remain as sticking points. Autonomous and protected regions, capitals of federal units, formation of local bodies, setting up of an Inter-Pradesh Council to settle federal disputes and right to self determination are other contentious issues. The State Restructuring Commission of the first CA suggested 10 provinces, while its State Restructuring Committee recommended 14. The Records Committee had formed a subcommittee under UCPN (Maoist) leader Haribol Gajurel to sort out agreed and disputed issues with reference to the first Assembly.

The Political Dialogue Committee led by Maoist leader Baburam Bhattarai will make efforts to settle the issue with suggestions from lawmakers in the House. None of the issues of the form of governance was resolved at the committee level.

The Committee to Study and Determine Constitutional Records (CSDCR) of the Constituent Assembly (CA) has concluded that the provision which requires a candidate for the chief justice of the federal apex court to have at least two years’ term left to work in the post is contentious.

» For all you tweety fans out there!

» Allows you to find only those news from any date you choose!
