
In April 2013, Travis County (Texas) District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg was arrested for driving while intoxicated. According to this report , she had an open vodka bottle in the car, her blood alcohol level was 0.239 — nearly three times the legal limit in Texas — and she was disruptive and uncooperative after her arrest.  She subsequently entered a plea agreement under which she was to serve 45 days in jail and pay a $4,000 fine, although it appears she may not have complied with all of the plea deal’s terms.  Lehmberg refused to resign from her position and a  subsequent effort to have her removed as the DA failed .

“The person charged with ultimate responsibility of that unit has lost the public’s confidence,” Perry explained.  Yet as detailed in this Wall Street Journal report , some believe Perry’s move was illegal.   Texans for Public Justice claims Perry’s threat to veto the funds amounted to illegal coercion and bribery of a government official, and last month a grand jury was  impaneled to investigate the Governor’s actions.   Another report suggests some of Perry’s staff sought to pressure Lehmberg to resign and may have offered her a job if she would step aside.

I’ll defer to others on the details of Texas law, but it seems to me criminal prosecution would be inappropriate even if it were shown that Perry sought to use his veto authority to force Lehmberg’s resignation.  Governors with line-item veto authority use it for political purposes all the time.  If the Perry misused his veto authority in this case, it seems to me that the proper remedy would be impeachment.   There is precedent for that in Texas, though I would think it’s unlikely here.  Unless there’s much more to the story — and there may be — I doubt Texas voters will be that upset about Perry’s use of the veto to punish a DA who had shown herself to be unfit for the job.

Jonathan H. Adler teaches courses in constitutional, administrative, and environmental law at the Case Western University School of Law, where he is the inaugural Johan Verheij Memorial Professor of Law and Director of the Center for Business Law and Regulation.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
