
KOZHIKODE: The death of Shahid Afridi, 17, of Thazhatheru in Kannur, last week, has once again highlighted the inexperience of the physicians and the lack of facilities in treating the patients with blood-related diseases in the state.

The Plus One student of the Kannur M T M Higher Secondary School died of Thalassemia on Friday at a private hospital in Kozhikode. Medical officials said that Shahid was referred to the hospital in Kozhikode only after his health condition worsened. Prior to being referred to the hospital in Kozhikode, the patient had been undergoing treatment at various private hospitals in Kannur with poor facilities and inexperienced physicians for the last several weeks.

 K T Farooq, father of Shahid, told ‘Express’ on Sunday that his son lost his life due to the medical errors and failure committed by the private hospitals in Kannur in providing the required medicines and advanced treatment in time.

 “My son continuously underwent blood transfusion as it was prescribed by the physicians. Continuous blood transfusion causes iron deposit to accumulate in heart and liver. His body was unable to excrete the iron deposit owing to Thalassemia. Proper medicine was not given to control the iron deposit. He died due to the huge accumulation of iron in liver and heart. My son’s life could have been saved if the doctors had referred him to any hospital with essential facilities,” Farooq said.

This is not an isolated one. The interventional health care services remain to be unobtainable for the Thalassemia, haemophilia and leukaemia patients across the state resulting even in loss of many lives.

According to Kareem Karassery, general convener of the Blood Patients’ Protection Council, the government hospitals across the state are yet to be facilitated with the haematology wings to cure the blood-related diseases.

“The haematology services available with the Malabar Cancer Centre, Thalassery, are inadequate to meet the needs of the patients. Even though the haematology wing was proposed in the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital after pressing demand, it is yet to get functional,” Kareem pointed out.

 Meanwhile, it is pointed out that the patients and their parents are not aware of the schemes that were launched to provide them financial assistance. There are various schemes including Thalolam and Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), launched for the welfare of the patients with blood-related diseases.

 “Government hospitals are reluctant to inform the patients about such schemes, and the patients are often being exploited in the hands of private hospitals,” Kareem said.

 The Blood Patients’ Protection Council has demanded the authorities to announce a probe into the death of Shahid and provide compensation for his family. It has also demanded to open a haematology wing and Thalassemia centre at the Kozhikode MCH.
