
Although it is rarely used, the Canadian prison program in which incarcerated mothers of young children are given special rooms is set for a major expansion.

As it adds 114 beds to minimum security prisons in Nova Scotia, Ontario, Alberta, and British Columbia, the Correctional Service of Canada will also add 15 new rooms adjacent to the main prison areas, set aside for mothers and their children, CSC spokeswoman Chantal Guerette said in an email.

The rooms “were designed with the capacity to facilitate the mother-child program,” she wrote, but she did not confirm whether more women would actually take part.

Currently, only two do, part time. Since 2008, only 14 children have participated at the federal level, with eight of them on a full-time basis.

“It’s very unclear,” said Howard Sapers, Canada’s ombudsman for federal prisons.

“We’ve been in frequent contact with Corrections Service Canada about this issue, not just frankly about the confusion around the policy… but also about the very low participation rate,” Mr. Sapers said.

Under the program, children under age four are allowed to stay with eligible inmate mothers inside the prison. Children under six are allowed on a part-time basis.

Advocates for the mother-child program argue it can lead to positive outcomes for both the woman and the child, including fewer inmates committing new crimes after their release.

Some victim groups, on the other hand, have argued it grants incarcerated women a privilege they do not deserve. Prison staff have also raised concern about the safety of the children.

The Harper government ordered stricter eligibility requirements by ministerial directive in 2008, following the controversial case of convicted murderer Lisa Whitford, who was allowed to keep her baby while behind bars.

The changes included reducing the age of eligibility among children to six from 12, excluding those who committed more serious crimes, and requiring the approval of provincial or territorial authorities.

Six years later, however, the government has yet to make an official policy change.

Mr. Sapers is hoping a British Columbia court ruling from last December, which affirmed the rights of female offenders to be with their children, helps move things forward by opening the program to more women.

The ruling came after a challenge from two inmates at Alouette Correctional Centre, which shut down its mother-child program in 2008.

The B.C. government, which did not appeal, was given six months to reinstate the program.

Federally incarcerated women are the fastest-growing segment of Canada’s prison population, with 35% of them of aboriginal descent, according to Mr. Sapers. There are 619 women in federal prisons and about two-thirds of them are mothers.

Amanda Edgar, who gave birth to her daughter in 2011 while in a B.C. jail that still offered the program, said it helped her develop a strong connection with her daughter.

“I had that bond with her. I was able to breastfeed her,” she said.

Ms. Edgar was released the same year and is now studying horticulture. The 30-year-old said she never felt her child was in danger behind bars, and many of the staff and her fellow inmates helped care for her child.
