
The last time former Spitfire pilot Harcourt "Bunty" Bunt was at Cassino he never set foot on the ground and never thought he ever would.

Now, 70 years after the end of one of the most destructive battles of World War II, the 93-year-old is one of 38 New Zealand veterans attending ceremonies around the Italian town and its iconic monastery.

Mr Bunt, who now lives in Picton, never imagined he would return and see with his own eyes the valley he and his squadron knew as "Flak Alley".

"To me it's incredible, because I've never seen it on the ground before. I wasn't on the ground, I was a fighter pilot upstairs at 14,000 feet," he told NZ Newswire on Tuesday.

Unfortunately there are no plans for him to take a flight: "I probably couldn't afford it, with what they charge."

Visiting the monastery had been a highlight, and it had brought his memories of the war flooding back.

"I loved it, because I had another guy from Picton, who was here in the army, and he and I are mates. He was showing me around."

Mr Bunt said they hadn't had much opportunity to meet the locals, but they were still remembered by some.

"We were walking through the New Zealand cemetery and people would step in front of you, shake your hand and say: `Thank you very much', even young guys."

New Zealand lost 2176 soldiers in Italy and 456 are buried at Cassino, following the series of battles involving British, Indian, Polish, French, American and German troops.

New Zealand forces played a big part in the second and third battles of Monte Cassino in 1944 before victory was secured in the fourth battle.

The conflict was one of the bloodiest battles in Europe with an estimated 250,000 men killed or wounded.

Controversially, the monastery was heavily bombed and destroyed in a bid to make a breakthrough, but the move failed and the holy site was later rebuilt.

Mr Bunt said the trip to Italy had been a fantastic experience, despite an arduous journey getting there.

"Sitting still for eight-and-a-half hours doesn't appeal to me a hell of a lot.

"I didn't think it was (worth it) I thought `God, I'd turn round and go back if I had half a chance', but when you get here, phwoar, it's incredible, just incredible."

Mr Bunt said he was grateful to the government - which is picking up the cost of the trip - and the carers assisting them.

New Zealand Army Colonel Rob Gillard, who is accompanying the veterans, says the group is enjoying itself.

There are 20 doctors, nurses and medics offering 24-hour care. Care is taken in moving from venue to venue, and each new site was scoped beforehand.

"They have got a tremendous amount of energy. These men have been through a lot beforehand and their energy is outstanding, they leave us behind," Col Gillard said.

Not all of them were able to make every event and they were saving themselves for some of the highlights.

Many went to visit the monastery and the veterans have mixed with former German paratroopers.

The New Zealanders have volunteered to attend the official commemoration at the German war graves on Tuesday, local time.

"I think the old boys realised that this was 70 years ago, they were young men of a similar age and doing what their country demanded of them. There was absolutely no animosity at all or no ill feeling," Col Gillard said.
