
Indian shares rose sharply on Monday, extending last week's rally, on strong capital inflows after people of India voted for a stable government with full majority for the first time in 30 years. With business -friendly Narendra Modi at the helm, investors are pinning hopes that the new government will not suffer from the coalition constraints. Modi is known for his astute administrative skills and a no-nonsense approach to the developmental work.

Many brokerages including UBS, Macquarie, Deutsche Bank, Nomura and Citigroup raised their Sensex and Nifty targets enthused by the decisive verdict of Indian electorate.

"The significant parliamentary majority won by the BJP-led NDA in India is likely to sustain the investor sentiment which has recently boosted equity indices and the rupee," Moody's Investors Service said. Another rating major Standard & Poor's said that the fiscal and economic reforms that the new government undertakes in the next two to three months will have significant implications on India's sovereign credit rating.

The benchmark S&P Sensex jumped 241.31 points or a percent to finish at  24,363.05, while the broader CNX Nifty Index ended at 7,263.55, up 60.55 points or 0.84 percent from its previous close. Both indexes notched fresh record closing highs.

Power equipment major BHEL soared 17 percent, state-run miner Coal India jumped 12.7 percent and power producer NTPC rallied 10.4 percent. Among other prominent gainers, Maruti Suzuki, HDFC, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, Sesa Sterlite, SBI, Larsen & Toubro, Hindalco Industries, Tata Power and ONGC climbed 3-8 percent.

State-run oil companies  BPCL, HPCL and IOC rose 4-9 percent after data showed the under-recovery on High Speed Diesel applicable for 2nd fortnight of May fell to Rs 4.41 per liter from Rs 6.80 per liter during 1st fortnight of May 2014.

High-beta realty stocks such as Indiabulls Real Estate, Godrej Properties, DLF, DB Realty and Unitech soared 6-17 percent on the back of improving risk appetite. Tata Communications advanced 3.6 percent after it agreed to sell its 67 percent stake in South African telecommunications unit, Neotel Pty., to an arm of Vodafone Group for about $680 million.

Suven Life Sciences gained 4.7 percent after securing three product patents. Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone rose 2.6 percent. The port operator has agreed to acquire the Dhamra Port in Odisha from Tata Steel and L&T Infrastructure Development Projects for about Rs 5,500 crore.

Jindal Saw soared 13 percent on robust Q4 earnings. Shares of Jaiprakash Power Ventures zoomed 31 percent after the company said it would seek shareholder nod to raise funds through various domestic/international options.

Shares of Sintex Industries jumped 19 percent. The company announced that it has allotted 1.64 crore equity shares at Rs 69.01 per share to promoter group companies upon conversion of warrants.

Rail-related stocks rose across the board on expectations the new government will unblock stalled investments in power, road and rail projects to revive economic growth. BEML, Kalindee Rail Nirman, Texmaco Infrastructure & Holdings and Kernex Microsystems all rose about 20 percent each.

IT and pharma stocks underperformed, extending Friday's losses, as the rupee hit a fresh 11-month high of 58.38 per dollar on sustained foreign capital inflows. Infosys plunged 5.3 percent, TCS plummeted 6.2 percent, Wipro tumbled 4.3 percent, Dr Reddy's Laboratories fell 5.5 percent, Ranbaxy lost 3.8 percent and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries dropped 4.7 percent.

Jayant Agro-Organics slumped 12.2 percent on disappointing Q4 results. Pfizer shares declined 1.5 percent after British drugs giant AstraZeneca rejected a final takeover bid worth $117 billion from its U.S. parent Pfizer.

Elsewhere, the Asian markets fell broadly as concerns that China's property sector is cooling sapped investor appetite for riskier assets. European stocks also edged lower, dragged down by drugmakers after AstraZeneca Plc rejected Pfizer Inc.'s takeover bid.
