
File photo.

THE Greens have demanded a comprehensive list of documents on recent activities involving Livestock Shipping Services (LSS) from Federal Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce’s office.

NSW Greens Senator and live exports spokesperson Lee Rhiannon moved the controversial motion in the Federal Senate last week. It requested “all documents and correspondence” relating to LSS, from November 1 last year “to the present day”, be tabled in the Senate no later than May 23.

The documents include; all letters and emails; all briefing notes, including but not limited to all Ministerial briefing notes; all internal departmental emails and memos; all recorded or noted phone calls and meetings, including meeting minutes; and all records and other relevant documents.

The move is designed to gather information on LSS’s activities to target questions on live exports during upcoming Senate estimates hearings, starting on May 26.

At estimates, ministerial departments and departmental officials face scrutiny over key industry issues like the government’s Exporter Supply Chain Assurance System (ESCAS) and market access.

LSS has been targeted by anti-live export campaigners in recent months for a perceived rogue attitude towards animal welfare and flaunting basic rules governing ESCAS to gain a market edge. Tensions peaked last year over an incident in Jordan during the annual two-day religious Festival of Eid al-Adha in mid-October, where it was alleged about 10,000 Australian sheep were sold at multiple locations outside ESCAS-approved supply chains.

The Department’s subsequent investigation concluded that 2718 sheep exported by LSS under ESCAS requirements were moved outside the approved LSS Jordan supply chain. The report recommended regulatory action including “additional activities to strengthen control and traceability” of supply chains in that market.

ESCAS was introduced by the former Labor government following the snap ban on live cattle exports to Indonesia in June 2011, to strengthen animal welfare standards in all export markets.

The system’s introduction hasn’t stopped Animals Australia from campaigning for a permanent ban on live trade, along with the Greens, but their strategy has seemingly shifted gear to focus on exposing individual exporters and demanding greater penalties from the Department of Agriculture for any ESCAS breaches.

One high ranking government source, who asked not to be named, said livestock industry members are “kidding themselves if they don’t think LSS is the prime target and will just be the first domino to fall”.

Speaking to Fairfax Agricultural Media, Senator Rhiannon said other live export companies may be unhappy with companies like LSS for breaking ESCAS rules. But she said “they all look after each other… and it’s hard to get them to break ranks”.

Senator Rhiannon said her document request was designed to create a paper trail (on LSS’ activities) due to “increasing concern” that Mr Joyce was “hell-bent” on opening new markets for Australian live trade without due accountability. The Greens still argue that expanding the live export is “a backward step for farming communities”, she said.

Senator Rhiannon believes live exports should be phased out over time and relaced with a frozen and boxed meat trade, backed by greater domestic processing.

“We’re concerned he’s trying to do deals with countries that don’t even meet the minimum requirements of ESCAS,” she said.

Senator Rhiannon declined to reveal details on any particular issue with LSS, “at this stage”, but confirmed LSS was “one of the companies that we do get regular complaints about”.

“The government would be wise to release this information and clear the decks. If they’ve got nothing to hide, this information should be readily released,” she said.

The Australian Livestock Exports Council was unaware of Senator Rhiannon’s request for LSS-related documents from the Minister’s office and declined to comment.

But speaking to media after last week’s budget, Mr Joyce reaffirmed his support for the live export trade and greater market expansion under a Coalition government.

He said Australia had “a great future” to further live animal exports, especially sheep into markets like Iran and Saudi Arabia.

“I’m very mindful of the fact that we have a great capacity because these (countries) used to be great trading partners of ours in the past, especially in agriculture,” he said.

“One of the things I love about going to the Middle East with people from Australian agriculture is the connection is already built; they all know each other.

“This is something that Australia should never lose sight of - that in the agricultural portfolio, there’s a very strong connection between the Middle East and Australian farmers,” he said.

Mr Joyce downplayed concerns about ESCAS as a potential barrier to enter new markets like Saudi Arabia.

Thanks Lee.  At least someone standing up for the animals.

Ill-informed and misinformed popular opinion will eventually kill the Australian live export industry. Ag+ has only itself to blame for the urban consumer/voter being uninformed or misinformed about animal welfare.  There has been no producer representative body either able or willing to defend Ag+ social licence to trade. Too busy in-fighting or protecting their levy funded jobs.

Why don't the greens keep their noses out of ag and stick to what they know (besides spreading ill-informed tripe), such as how many sugars they have in their lattes.

The sooner the Greens are gone from our society the better.

If the Greens and Animals Australia get their way, we will eliminate sheep, cattle and all other cloven footed animals from Australia because they are not native.  Pastoralists will be an extinct species and the tax payer will bear 100% of the burden of keeping the bush the way it was before European settlement (their environmental ideal) because "our food comes from the supermarket".

LSS is currently the largest live exporter from Australia.  The documents sought in Senator Rhiannon's motion are relevant and must be produced. The Australian public should be kept informed. We need to know that any compliance issues and/or loopholes in the ESCAS are being identified, acted upon and penalties given.  Animal welfare is not negotiable.

I support a humane live export industry. The Greens do not support the industry because they believe it is inhumane.  The industry would be best off demonstrating the industry is humane, that then takes the argument away from the Greens.  Remember that the Greens get more votes than the Nats, check the WA Senate results. They also happen to buy a large proportion of the produce I grow. Don't shoot the customer.

@laughable: Your comment is laughable. Try to read up on the subject a little bit before commenting.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
