
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Faced with criticism and a recall petition over her handling of the fracking issue, St. Tammany Parish President Pat Brister issued an open letter to residents on Monday, saying her administration is drafting ordinances that would give the parish some oversight over oil and gas drilling operations. While it is up to the Army Corps of Engineers and the state Department of Natural Resources to determine whether Helis Oil & Gas Co. of New Orleans will be allowed to drill a well near Mandeville , Brister said, the parish government must do what it can "to safeguard our beautiful parish, its pristine water and our coveted lifestyle."

Mandate pre-drilling water quality testing to establish baseline data, as well as require periodic additional tests during drilling, and for as long as the well is operational, to measure any and all water quality impacts. Tests would be conducted by the parish, state or a third-party contrctor.

Limit the hours of operation of any oil & gas drilling project.

Create a noise ordinance specific to this type of operations to limit the decibel levels.

Establish strict restrictions on truck traffic routes, weights and standards and hours of operation.

Mandate buffers, plantings and setbacks to reduce visual conflicts and screen production activity from public view.

Require the creation of a mitigation plan to be submitted to the parish before drilling occurs.

Require all water to be used in the drilling life cycle be brought in from outside the parish, and require that all fluids extracted from a well be sent outside the parish for disposal.

Dictate that every drilling project be bonded through a performance bond, certificate of deposit, or a letter of credit.

Ancillary activities associated with drilling projects fall under parish law, Brister said, and St. Tammany's zoning restrictions can be used to regulate the placement of such support functions.

"These requirements are deliberate, measured and thoughtful, to ensure we are doing everything in our power to ward off any potential negative impact," Brister wrote. "This administration will continue to work to protect St. Tammany and its citizens. It is our charge to defend our parish, and we will stand fast to that duty."

A spokesman for the Brister administration said the ordinances have been in the works for weeks and are not a reaction to the recall effort or any criticism.

Brister has taken heat from citizens in part because she has not taken a stance against fracking like Covington Mayor Mike Cooper , Mandeville Mayor Donald Villere and Abita Springs Mayor Greg Lemons. She has said from the beginning that her legal advisers maintain the local government has little or no say in whether Helis Oil is granted permits necessary to drill the proposed well just north of Interstate 12 and east of Louisiana 1088.

"The Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, along with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, will evaluate the proposal and then determine whether it will proceed. This goes against my personal political belief that serving the people's interest is best done at the local level," Brister said. "By not allowing the parish to determine its own fate, state law (specifically, the Department of Natural Resources) ties the hands of local government and overrides parish zoning designations."

Brister has been sharply criticized online, and last week a recall petition was started against her and all 14 members of the Parish Council.

The recall petition against Brister was started by Robert E. Fielding of Covington, listed as chairman on the paperwork from the Louisiana Secretary of State's Office. He could not be reached for comment Monday. The vice chair is listed as Monica Cruz, also of Covington.

The 14 separate petitions against members of the Parish Council were started by Alexander Ledoux of the Abita Springs area, and Leslie Marie Guy of Covington. Contacted Monday, Ledoux said he would soon provide NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune with a statement about why he started the recall effort and how he plans to go about gathering the necessary signatures.

Citizens opposed to fracking have packed several public meetings on the proposed drilling, expressing concerns about air and water pollution due to the chemicals used in the processes. They also fear that drilling could harm the aquifer that supplies St. Tammany's drinking water.

Helis has said that it has experience drilling such wells and that safeguarding the environment and citizens' health would be a priority. Tens of thousands of oil and gas wells have been drilled in Louisiana without harm to the aquifers, proponents have said.

Meanwhile, the St. Tammany West Chamber of Commerce on Monday took up for Brister, the Parish Council and members of the Legislature, who have been put on "an intellectual and emotional battlefield" over the fracking issue.

"We, the leaders of our Chamber, express to you our members our full support of the elected officials who lead our great parish and serve in our state Legislature.  The time arrived for us to speak up on their behalf, to thank them for their perseverance during this challenge, and to offer our full fledged support as the proposed plans move forward."

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
