
SPLASH FUN: The Raumati Beach splash pad. Elaine Thomsen would love to see one in Porirua.

The dream is not over for Elaine Thomsen.

The Pukerua Bay resident raised the idea of a splash pad for Porirua this time last year.

She has seen the fun her grandchildren have at the splash pad at Raumati Beach, where they tear around among water cannons, spraying jets and tipping buckets.

It didn't pass muster during last year's Porirua City Council annual plan submission period, but a handful of submissions to this year's draft plan have kept the idea alive.

Thomsen, who didn't make comment for a splash pad this year, said it was wonderful people were still thinking about it.

"I've seen how much use the Raumati one gets and how much fun it is for the kids. If there's enough will for it, maybe one could be built next to Te Rauparaha Arena.

"It needs to be looked after properly, but it would be an asset and an attraction for the city."

The six submissions in favour of a splash pad had 64 signatures attached.

This year there were 86 submissions to the council's draft annual plan, which is forecasting a 4.3 per cent rates rise for the city.

Replacing the Canopies, setting money aside for Transmission Gully link roads, joining the regional amenities fund and joining Capacity are the big- budget items.

There were 16 submissions opposing rates increases, 18 in favour of a mountainbike park at Colonial Knob and 15 against fluoride in water.

"I recommend that your council end water fluoridation permanently, because of the growing weight of scientific evidence showing harm to human health," said Noeling Gannaway.

Porirua mayor Nick Leggett has said previously he is not opposed to fluoride in the region's water.

"Capital & Coast District Health Board [of which he is a board member] reaffirmed its decision to support fluoride recently," he said.

"I'm not against the community debating it, but instead of individuals and action groups making submissions to annual plans, let's see if they have enough numbers to get a regional referendum going."

Thirty-six submitters will speak to their draft annual plan submissions this week.

After the hearings, the council will adopt the finalised plan in June.
