
Both the print and electronic media carried a story relating to the disgusting statement made by Amplats CEO Chris Griffith saying, "Am I getting paid on a fair basis for what I'm having to deal with in this company? Must I run this company and deal with all this nonsense for nothing? I'm at work. I'm not on strike.I'm not demanding to be paid what I'm not worth."

 Indeed, such statement are indicative that those who are tasked with the responsibility to manage the capitalist conglomerates doing so by exploiting the workers. Thus the statement uttered by Amplats CEO demonstrates the high levels of greediness and the total disregard of the workers'rights. Hence therefore it might be important to remind the nation and the world that Mr Griffith is not the first person to demonstrate such arrogance in the corridors of the platinum belt.

AMCU president Joseph Mathunjwa has been demonstrating such arrogance which was covered on the Fincancial Mail in February 2014 by Sikonathi Mantshantsha in his weekly column.

When Mathunjwa was confronted by a question in relation to the collection of workers monthly subscription whilst they are on strike? Mathunjunwa's reply had this to say "What does my salary have to do with the strike? I am not on strike, why must I not get paid? And I did not tell the people to strike, they themselves voted for the strike." Clearly, Mathunjwa and Griffith are singing from the same hymn book.

This is the same Mathunjwa who owns fleet of vehicles and property and has consistently refused to account about how he acquired for his wealth (see report in The Star). On the contrary he claims to be the champion of workers interest yet he has wealth he can't account for , therefore, Joseph Mathunjwa of AMCU and Chris Griffith of AMPLATS are the two sides of the same coin hence workers must not be blinded by Mathunjwa's left rhetoric; he is a person who speaks left and walks right.

Mathunjwa is a dangerous person who behaves like a wolf in the sheep skin, using the genuine grievances of wokers for his own selfish ends. He, the self-appointed President of AMCU, has never called an elective congress of his ‘union' nor has any intention of doing so. Let's also note Mathunjwa is the only President of a union in the country who is in the pay-roll of the union- contrary to the practise where union Presidents are worker leaders.

Anglo platinum, thought by promoting this Mathunjwa AMCU project, they were dealing with NUM so that they can continue to super exploit mine workers and gain super profits. They were horrible mistaken, Mathunjwa has learn well from his handlers he has . .more become just like them, a super exploiter. They all want to exploit the same workers for their own selfish benefits. Why would Mathunjwa continue to collect workers subscriptions when the miners are so visibly hungry.

For his kind to call the Gift of the Givers to assist is a master stroke, instead of using their strike funds to share it. In comes the Givers while his kind goes to the bank grinning on all sides. NUM had their own challenges but they were not this heartless.

There is a difference between the two men. Griffith is a capitalist, working for a platinum company who knowingly employed him for megabucks.

Mathunja is a trade union leader who led his men out on strike, but it is unlikely that most of them realise . .more that whilst he makes demands the companies will never agree to, on their behalf, he continues to draw a salary: they starve, he carries on being fat.

It's the Unions who are calling for the strikes, not the workers.

It is quite correct for the mining companies to deal directly with the workers.

I think If I was COO at Amplats , I would also be replacing unskilled labour with machinery ... is this not simply the last throes - as suggested above possibly assisted by a share holding union member in aiding the process using unreasonable labour . .more demands which force the Amplats hand .

Excuse my being slow - but I don't quite get it - how does Mathunjwa collect union fees from the workers if the workers are not getting their salaries?? Some 'clever, bright' person please enlighten me!

that capital, management and labor has to play in any venture.

Unfortunately this is not happening in Seffrica and in fact everywhere that communist economic ideology managed to get a foothold.

The Soviet Union, that paragon of . .more communist virtue, declared capital the enemy of the people and persecuted the "capitalists" for exploitation. It lead to economic and spiritual stagnation and ended in economic implosion.

The COSATU and Nactu affiliated unions are for ever trying to wrest control of economic concerns away from the owners who have put up the capital and bear the risk. Trade union leaders see themselves as the rightful managers because they represent the people who do most of the actual work. They want to have the final say. Underlying all their actions is one simple motive: greed. They want to take over something that is not theirs.

The real owners can not let this happen. The time has come to draw a line in the sand and say: we the owners will not permit you to succeed. The owners will either win, with organised labor losing, or it will become a lose-lose situation for all.

The sad thing about it all is that the ANC, in their infinite wisdom, saw fit to pass legislation that promoted this kind of struggle, purely out of their dislike for whites, the bad exploitative capitalists. And the whole country suffers.

This exercise has been done before in another example.

Meanwhile the workers were paying R150pm in Union Fees.

How do the workers benefit from . .more having a CEO? He is their best possible shop steward. He has the training, skill and contacts. He runs the operation at the profit which generates all salaries. Without him the mine is functionless.

Far better to pay your CEO R75pm, keep him from emigrating and sack the Union.

When asked why he drove such an expensive (capitalist) car, costing several RDP houses and the optional extras of which cost several more, Comrade BMW750i, the boss of the SACP made some inane remarks absolutely similar to Griffith's and . .more Mathunjwa.

A silly hypothesis!

"Clearly, Mathunjwa and Griffith are singing from the same hymn book."

This is obviously NOT true!

Griffith is paid to run the mine at a profit, or not at all. Mathunjwa is paid to secure . .more good working conditions (and pay) for the workers belonging to his Union. Griffith and his minions probably have sophisticated financial models to guide them in deciding what they can afford to pay their workers at current productivity and market price levels.

It is not clear how Mathunjwa and his lieutenants arrived at the magical figure of a minimum wage of R12500 per month. What IS clear though is that Griffith and his crew are NOT going to accept that figure as yet, and may only do so in due course after major restructuring implying the loss of many jobs has been planned.

So, it seems to me that Mathunjwa's Union-led brinkmanship in demanding an unrealistic immediate hike in minimum wages was ill conceived and did his union members a great disservice. Griffith on the other hand may have saved his company huge financial losses (which could well have sunk it) and enabled it to regroup to work more smartly in future.
