
So far, Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa state has spent two years in the administration of the state. In this interview with some reporters Governor Dickson examines his achievements, the new fiscal and infrastructural policies and the reason he has insisted on hard work instead of sharing government money to politicians in the state. OSARO OKHOMINA brings the excerpts Excerpts.

When I was campaigning for the office, I knew the agenda I wanted to pursue, if elected.  And, if you read my inaugural speech, it captures the depth of the revolution I wanted to pursue.  And two years and three months down the line, nobody, who comes to Bayelsa is in any doubt about all the areas I said I was going to make a difference.

Whether it is in the area of reform of the governance process, transparency and accountability and then openness that now drives our government or is it in the area of the promises I made about turning Yenagoa into a massive construction site or is it in the promises I made in the declaration of emergency in the education sector or in the promotion and defence of the Ijaw fundamental interest, promotion of our language and culture, including the most important foundation for human development, which is security.

When I said there was going to be zero tolerance to criminality, violence and lawlessness, in all these things, in all modesty, looking back, I feel a sense of modest achievements that has been made.  Are we where we should be? No!

This is just two years and three months but we have laid a foundation and the evidence of our seriousness is there, the evidence of our focus is there, the evidence of our determination is there and when I said that with me as governor, this state and the Ijaw nation will never be the same again, I meant it.

Everybody is coming to Bayelsa, even observers, to see what is going on – within and even outside this country; people are left with no doubt that we are doing exactly what we said we were going to do.

Talking about human capacity building, we are going to look at it from two perspectives: first, the area of building capacity of our young people and building capacity of the work force.

I will take the work force first.  There is no capacity building programme that the public service has approached me to support that I have not supported. There is no programme that the head of the Civil Service, no programme that leaders of organised labour want to organise or even attend that I have not supported.

But I have tasked them that what is presently going on in the area of development of capacity within the public service is not aggressive enough, and I thought by now we should have finished the Public Service Institute.

I have charged the Chairman of Civil Service Commission as well as the Head of Service and the Labour Union to make that happen.  But unfortunately I have not seen much more in that.  A couple of months back I’ve had cause to appoint a very seasoned former civil servant, Mr. C T Ekelemate.

That actually is one of the major areas we all need to work to address.  Yesterday in the comments I made before signing the micro finance bill into law is this dependency syndrome and it is caused by a mindset that does not take responsibility for living.

Life has its own challenges, whoever you are. You need to take challenges.  Our people must stand up to these challenges and take responsibility for their lives.  I am also a product of this environment.  I am not someone who dropped from the moon. I started life from the scratch, stayed in my community, went to primary school, went to the Government Secondary School Toru-Ebeni in my local government and was over 19 years before I went to join the Nigeria Police as a Constable, taking responsibility for my life, and taking responsibility for my future.

I’m not saying I am what I am because of my hard work. I attribute it to the mercies of God, but every human being must work hard.

That when we had Bayelsa created, we started with a wrong notion that God used Sani Abacha to create this for ourselves, for the Ijaw people and our understanding is that the state must be responsible for our schools fees.

I agree with that and that is why we’ve taken that burden off the parents.  But the state cannot be responsible for your house rent or your electricity bill and whether you eat in the morning or not. In the morning state will provide breakfast for you, in the afternoon state will provide lunch, in the evening state will provide dinner for you.

(cuts in..)Everybody must work hard, you must have something doing. The state has its own responsibility.Now you have a government that is alive to its general responsibilities, but the state cannot solve the general problems of society and solve your own. Life has a cause, you must work hard.

If you are expecting that one government will give you one million, two million, after that one is finished, the person will come back to square one. That’s what is going on.  That is why some of our people, when they are in government; that’s when they build houses, that’s when they buy cars.

I’m not aware that light came just because Mr. President was in town.  The report I heard is that the light situation is improving. I don’t know which part of the city you are talking about because that’s also important.  Where ever you are staying, let me just let you know that there are some of the things we do that people don’t see.  Very soon we shall be launching the programme, operation lighting up Bayelsa.  We have made huge investment, connected a lot of areas to the national grid, now up to Ofoni in Sagbama local government. We are working on the central senatorial district, connecting all these Famgbe, Angiama areas.

On sea piracy and restiveness; that’s a very troubling issue, and I made a charge in the course of inaugurating the Bayelsa Volunteers and I charged the coordinators, particularly in Nembe, Brass, Southern Ijaw and some parts of Ekeremor to see how they can wipe out piracy.
