
The Roanoke Times seeks an enterprising and energetic reporter to join our nine-person bureau near Virginia Tech.

The ascent to Mountain Lake Lodge is a slow, winding 7 miles.

A bagel shop has popped up in Gables Shopping Center in Blacksburg. “Hello Bagel” now appears in bright pink letters in one of the storefronts.

RADFORD — For most of the students swarming onto Radford University’s campus, Friday was a flood of hand-trucks and foot-lockers, an abundance of moving vans and a shortage of parking spaces — the semi-organized start of another academic year.

Ask staff and students at Virginia Western what it takes to be successful in college and they’ll likely say it is about more than going to class — it’s about having support and community.

It is a garden path in an art garden — but it is so much more.

A young Roanoke County artist turned philanthropist is now a published illustrator.

Virginia Tech will conduct a full-scale test of its VT Alerts system Thursday on the Blacksburg campus, as well as university facilities located in six regions across Virginia.

RADFORD — For most of the students swarming onto Radford University’s campus, Friday was a flood of hand-trucks and foot-lockers, an abundance of moving vans and a shortage of parking spaces — the semi-organized start of another academic year.

Backcountry.com is going on a hiring spree as it looks to increase its Christiansburg workforce by between 100 and 125 employees — or nearly 40 percent — for what it expects to be a busy holiday season.

The Roanoke-Blacksburg Technology Council and Roanoke-Blacksburg Innovation Network announced Monday the two organizations with similar missions will become one.

DUBLIN — Volvo Trucks executives said Tuesday the company has made it through the tough economic times that caused mass layoffs in 2007. They say truck demand is back and Volvo is poised to count the most sales it has in years.

Virginia Tech has at least temporarily demoted its most experienced ball-carrier due in part to his slow recovery to old injuries.

PULASKI — Estarlin Cordero struck out Taylor Zeutenhorst with the bases loaded to end the game and preserve a 6-5 victory for the Burlington Royals over the Pulaski Mariners on Monday night at Calfee Park.

Here are some of the New River Valley fans who attended Star Wars night at LewisGale Field in Salem on Friday, Aug. 22, to cheer on the Red Sox. Some of the fans even dressed up in their favorite Star Wars costumes.

Blacksburg grad Holly Arsenault has won three national awards for her art and will attend the School of the Art Institute of Chicago this fall.

Jordyn White, of White's Dairy in Indian Valley, spent a recent sunny Saturday supplying organic corn to crowds of buyers at the corner of North Franklin Street and Wades Lane in Christiansburg.

The Riner Volunteer Rescue Squad Board of Directors met this spring to honor members who have previously served on the board.
