
HYDERABAD: The recommendations of all the state-level committees constituted for the bifurcation will be sent to the Centre this week for ratification. The proposals had been approved by Governor ESL Narasimhan on Sunday. It may be recalled that all the work related to bifurcation was completed by May 15.

The proposals were put before the Governor at a review meeting at Raj Bhavan. The Governor gave his nod to all the recommendations and proposals. After the Centre approves them, they would be implemented from June 2, the Appointed Day.

The Governor also took some key decisions with regard to bifurcation. He approved the expenditure fund of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states for a period of four months from June 2.

Chief Secretary PK Mohanty informed the Governor that 38 more institutions will be added to Schedule 10 of the AP Reorganisation Act. The Central government mentioned 107 institutions under the schedule 10.

“Another 38 institutions will be added to the list. A proposal will be sent to the Centre to this effect,” the Chief Secretary said.

Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Nagi Reddy said in the AP Reorganisation Act, the irrigation department has noticed certain discrepancies related to Krishna River Management Board, and 16 projects currently under construction on Krishna and Godavari.

The Governor immediately accepted the proposals of Nagi Reddy and decided to forward the same to the Centre for making necessary amendments in the Reorganisation Act.

The Chief Secretary said division of files and digitalisation have been completed, along with division of movable and immovable assets and vehicles. The Chief Secretary said the advisory and apex committees for state reorganisation would be reconstituted. The Advisory Committee will have CR Kamalnathan as chairman. Chief Secretaries of both AP and Telangana states, and secretaries of home, finance, and law departments of both the states will be members. Secretary of AP Reorganisation Department will be the member-secretary.

Institutions under Schedule 9 of the Act, companies and corporations will have to submit their bifurcation plans to the three-member expert committee. Issues related to All India Service Officers and state government officials have also been reviewed at the meeting. The guidelines proposed for allocation of government quarters were approved.
