
Nigerians have now begun to see the House of Representatives as the legislative arm that concerns itself with ensuring accountability in public service. But there have been rising concerns about high profile investigations still unattended to in committees of the House due to pressure from high places. This piece by Adesuwa Tsan focuses on the suspended Diezani jet probe holed up in the Public Accounts committee and that of the Finance committee on the state of the nation’s economy.

The House of Representatives was widely applauded when it came to the public that it had decided to probe allegations against minister of petroleum resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke for spending N10 billion on the charter of jets for private use.

But that applause has been dying steadily following the suspension of the investigation as a result of a court process instituted by Diezani to stop the probe.

Already, there were allegations of pressure on the committee from the presidency to stop the probe. While that may have been doubted at that time, the president’s response to questions on the probe during the recent media chat confirms it.

The president, while speaking in her defence said during his last Presidential Media Chat that the House is distracting his ministers from conducting their functions by asking them to come to National Assembly all the time to account for their activities.

He said the representatives were conducting politicised probes and that his Petroleum Resources Minister, Alison-Madueke, had appeared before the lawmakers up to 200 times.

He stated that, “We (reps) hold the office of Mr. President in high esteem, but it is unfortunate that he said we conduct politicised probes. The House is about accountability; Diezani has to appear before us because we cannot ask questions in her absence.

“She has to come; she has to be accountable to the Nigerian people. “As legislators, we are also accountable to our electorate”, he said, adding that the House could summon any minister, including Alison-Madueke, “1000 times” if need be.

“There is no limit to the number of times a minister can appear before the House for the purpose of accountability. There are many investigations or issues being considered by the House.

“That a minister had appeared before the House over a particular issue does not mean that when summoned over a different subject, the minister cannot appear again.

“Besides, on this issue of expenditure on jets, she (Diezani) has yet to appear before the House; she has not appeared on the matter before.

Despite several invitations, Alison-Madueke has out rightly refused to honour invitations by the committee before committees of the House, including the committee on Public Accounts probing the N10bn she reportedly spent in two years to charter a private jet, Challenger 850.

But this will not be the first time that the president would be seen to be countering attempts by the legislators to probe activities of his ministers. When the House resolved to take a cursory look at the way the director general of Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) is running the organisation after allegations that her leadership style contributed to the dwindling fortunes of the commission, he did not offer any kind of encouragement to it and has refused to date to implement recommendations of the report.

Similarly, immediately the reps took a decision to probe his former minister of Aviation, Princess Stella Oduah for spending N255m on two BMW bulletproof cars, he set up a parallel panel to also investigate her.

According to Zakari, “This is to tell you the kind of frustrations we embark every day. This is a clear case of a matter which is under investigation, or supposedly will go into investigation, but is being frustrated”.

Also, there is growing concern over the silence by the House of Representatives Committee on Finance on the state of the economy investigation which was widely publicised late last year and early this year.

The last time it was heard of, the probe was postponed by the chairman of the committee, Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin, who explained that the postponement is to enable the minister of finance and coordinating minister of the economy, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, and other invited stakeholders complete the budget defence exercise of their various ministries and agencies. This was in March.

He stated then that the “The postponement was necessitated by the need to allow various ministries, departments, agencies and other affected stakeholders to continue with the 2014 budget defence before  standing committees of the National Assembly,” adding that a new date will be announced soon after the conclusion of the budget defence exercise.
