
Sunday, May 18, on the occasion of the commemoration of the 211th anniversary of the creation of our bicolor, Gandy Thomas, the Consul General of Haiti in Atlanta issued a message to the Atlanta Haitian community and the Southeast of the USA.

"Dear compatriots ,

Here we are once again together in this great day of May 18 to commemorate the 211 years of our bicolor, living symbol of immortality and indivisibility of our country. This flag still contains the sweat and blood of heroes who have dedicated our freedom and independence on the battlefield to Vertières, to the Butte Charrier, and to the Crête-à-Pierrot and the mountains of southern and western pushing colonialism.

This morning, the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly , Prime Minister and other members of the government were Arcahaie , the historic city that was the birthplace of the national flag. I have not yet had the opportunity to read his speech he made. But I know that the Head of State has surely once again called on the nation to reflect on the concept of flag, to reflect on the need for national discipline and on this need of total Peace for Haiti continues its march towards progress and sustainable development.

The rituals of these historical dates are not without value of example for a Youth, who needs to know it is on the threshold of a new history that will need his energy, his fighting spirit, his sense of patriotism and sense of dignity for Rebuilding the Nation. Because that's what it is: Rebuilding the Nation, pick up the pieces of a country that we found in tatters.

It is also a source of pride to recalls, inthis sacred day of Flag Day and the University that the work of national renewal fueled by all governmental actions will finally be a reality only when we all Haitians, we become aware of our duty to the common fatherland. A homeland that our ancestors have left us with so much sacrifice, to the price of blood for our total emancipation of the shackles of colonialism, for the enjoyment of our full freedom.

Live free or die seemed to be inscribed in letters of gold on these pieces of sacred fabrics that Catherine Flon sewn with the needle of dignity, emotion and freedom in honor  of a people infatuated of ideal, justice, peace and work.

Our two-tone floating in the blue, it's true.

But we must work hard so that we can, in the imminent future, breathe deeply the air of freedom and dignity during the May 18 to come.

Haïti ap vanse !
