
According to his on/off husband Johnny Weir, he is the agressor of their relationship, inflicting 'physical and mental abuse' on the figure skating prodigy.

But in the latest installment of the soap opera partnership between the catty couple, Victor Voronov claims it is he who is the victim, with Weir biting and scratching him with his 'big fingernails' his during their increasingly violent domestic disputes.

In an interview with Inside Edition on Monday night, the Georgetown graduate said he was 'terrified' of his husband of two years during their most recent melee, with police called to the pair's New Jersey home on Saturday night.

Voronov had reported Weir to authorities for allegedly attacking him.

'I was terrified - he was red (with anger),' Voronoz told Inside Edition.

'All of the attacks came from his fingernails.

'He has long fingernails, big fingernails too.

'And (the injuries) all came from scratching.'

Voronov showed his injuries to the camera, revealing a bite mark on his shoulder and scratches on his leg and hang.

The alleged assault came just 12 days after Weir had announced on Twitter the pair had decided to reconciled after filing for divorce earlier this year.

TMZ reported Sunday, after Voronov spoke with police, that the fight was over text messages Weir had found that reportedly 'badmouthed him'.

Voronov did not comment on what started the fight during his interview, but said he had threatened Weir with calling 911.

'I said, if you don’t leave me alone, I will call the police.

'He would not leave me alone. So I had my phone; I was trying to call the police.

'My husband and I have happily reconciled,' wrote the 29-year-old. 'Please respect our privacy and integrity at this time.'

'Love is dangerous,' he went on. 'Love is safe. Love is ugly. Love is beautiful.'

The message was a dramatic about-face from the one Weir posted on March 19.

'It is with great sadness that I announce that my husband and I are no longer together,' he tweeted.

Days later, Weir told Access Hollywood of the 'personal hell' he was experiencing when the cameras turned off during his stint as a Sochi commentator because of Voronov, who he called abusive.

'Some of my closest friends have seen him hit me before,' he said at the time.

Not to be outdone, Weir's non-practicing, Georgetown-educated attorney husband shot back with accusations of Weir's infidelity.

TMZ revealed court documents in which Voronoz painted himself as a victim of Weir's theatrical self obsession and said Weir cheated on him with a porn star and a club owner.

TMZ also posted a photo allegedly showing a nasty little bite mark on Voronov's arm left by Weir after one spat.

According to Radar, it subsequently leaked that Weir used gay sex hookup app Grindr on which the skater sent full-front naked selfies to other men.

The battle raged, though with fewer tantalizing public details, until around mid-April.

That's when makeup number one came as Voronov agreed to move back in with Weir so long as he agree to a list of stipulations that included a public apology from Weir and written agreement that the skater's mother must butt out of their married life.

Weir then shot back the next day with a bizarre 'post-nuptial agreement' with the reality star's own demands.

The 5-page document included a list of no-no's like extramarital sexting and mutual masturbation outside the marriage, denied each the right to be 'in close range' of any exes and required bi-yearly STD tests from both parties.

Something about the list must not have settled well with Voronov, because the following day the couple were off again thanks to Weir's mom Patti, who Voronov told Us Weekly was 'definitely the source of the breakdown of our marriage.'

Fast forward to 4am on Tuesday morning and, without revealing how fences were mended or if his mother finally butt out, Weir happily announced he was back with Voronov.

'To love hard, is the greatest gift, even with all it's flaws. Keep shining.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
