
WHILE a fact-finding mission team composed of progressive groups reported numerous cases of human rights violation allegedly perpetrated by the Philippine Army in Mindanao, a top official of the Regional State Prosecution Office in Davao Region said that a government inter-agency probe team could also take part in a separate investigation to verify the reports.

This in response to the report of the fact-finding team composed of Karapatan, Makabayan, Bayan Muna, Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, KAMP, Gabriela Women's Party List, Kalikasan, Kilusang Mayo Uno and ACT Teachers Partylist, reporting some human rights violations committed by personnel of the 10th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army.

Regional State Prosecutor for Davao Region lawyer Antonio Arellano, in a phone interview with Sun.Star Davao on Monday, said that the inter-agency probe team will rely on the sufficiency of evidence presented by the fact-finding mission team.

"If they (progressive groups) think that they have sufficient evidence against the perpetrators then I suggest that they file charges to the agencies with the appropriate jurisdiction. But if they think that they don't have any evidence yet, they could recommend the report to us so that we could conduct a case build up and evidence gathering," Arellano said.

He said the investigation will be conducted by what he called as the AO 35 teams, formed by virtue of the Administrative Order (AO) 35 penned by President Benigno Aquino III on November 22, 2012, in relation to the DOJ Department Order 726.

But he was quick to add that the AO 35 teams cannot just conduct a probe as soon as they receive the reports from the progressive groups since they will still need the approval of the higher office.

"The recommendations will be given first to the Department of Justice (DOJ) which is the lead agency of the AO 35 teams. If there is probable cause, that is when an AO 35 team is formed," Arellano said.

He added that the AO 35 team is also composed of the Philippine National Police, Armed Forces of the Philippines, Presidential Human Rights Committee, Department of Interior Local Government, Department of National Defense, Office of Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process, Presidential Adviser for Political Affairs and the National Bureau of Investigation.

The probe team of the progressive groups, meanwhile, earlier revealed that the militarization in Paquibato District in Davao City, Talaingod in Davao del Norte, Makila in North Cotabato and Maco in Compostela Valley Province has bred various human rights violations, which include the encampment of public facilities and civilian structures, intimidation and harassment of civilians and cases of extra-judicial killings on tribal leaders and anti-mining activists.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
