
Conservative Local Government Secretary Eric Pickles has been asked to investigate why Tory councillors on Surrey County Council (SCC) voted themselves huge increases in allowances last week.

Last Tuesday, Conservative-led SCC considered recommendations for changes to the basic and special responsibility allowances paid to councillors, which were last increased in July 2010.

A report by the Independent Remuneration Panel (IRP) had made recommendations for changes to the different allowances paid to councillors - some of which were ignored by Conservative councillors who tabled amendments, without prior notice.

The IRP recommended that the special allowance paid to the leader of the council be increased from £27,000 to £35,548.  The Conservative councillors bumped this up to £43,000.

They also voted to increase the deputy leader’s special allowance from £19,500 to £31,250 - even though the IRP had recommended a rise to £30,333.

But the council accepted the IRP’s suggestion that the basic allowance of the 81 councillors be increased from the current £11,791 to £12,418.

The changes take the allowances paid to the leader of the council up to £55,418 - a more than 60 per cent increase.

On Monday all three members of the IRP resigned in protest over councillors’ "flagrant disregard" for the recommendations it had made.

Councillor Hazel Watson, leader of the Liberal Democrats on SCC, said she has written to Mr Pickles, Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, asking him to investigate the way in which the decisions were taken and whether they complied with Government regulations.

She said: "I am doing everything possible to challenge these inappropriate decisions on behalf of Surrey residents, who have to foot the bill for these excessive increases for councillors.

"I hope the Secretary of State will undo these decisions so that more reasonable allowances for Surrey county councillors can be put in place."

In her letter, Coun Watson said the increases were not in line with IRP’s recommendations and were tabled by the Conservative majority at the last minute "with no openness and transparency".

All bar six Conservative councillors voted for the increases, while all opposition councillors voted against them.

A spokesman for the Conservative group on Surrey County Council said: "The IRP’s role is to make recommendations to council.  The elected councillors make the final decision.

"The IRP should have ensured that the amounts proposed reflect the level of responsibility expected from these posts.

"Many of these roles equate to a full time job, particularly in light of the additional duties handed down from central Government, and in order to attract a wide-range of people with diverse backgrounds, it is vital that the remuneration is at an appropriate level."

A SCC spokeswoman added: "The Government has given county councils 42 new responsibilities since 2010 and these have increased the workload for the cabinet and other senior councillors.

"There has been no review of allowances for four years and while that was the right thing to do at the time it is now important that they are adjusted to reflect increases in roles and responsibilities."

What a bunch of jokers.. how does every company in the country manage to do this for all thier employees every year.. but the council can't manage it.

If the country was in a good state of repair and councillers were working hard to improve i suppose it could be justified but with more and more cutbacks and rising council tax year on year this is really taking the ****!

My vote is that there are plenty of intelligent people out there screaming out for a job/work so lets replace the lot of them with more cost efficent workers. From where i am standing i doubt anyone could do a worse job!

I work in the private sector and have not see a payrise for 5 years, happy to struggle by knowing that one day things will improve but not happy to struggle with rising bills when i know these jokers are taking that extra council tax and lining their own pockets with it.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
