
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria (AP) — Traditional hunters armed with homemade guns, poisoned spears and amulets have gathered in their hundreds, eager to use their skills and what they believe to be supernatural powers to help find nearly 300 schoolgirls abducted by Islamic extremists.

Some 500 hunters, some as young as 18 and some in their 80s, say they have been specially selected by their peers for their spiritual hunting skills and have been waiting for two weeks in Maiduguri, the Borno state capital and the birthplace of Boko Haram, to get backing from the military and get moving.

With Nigeria’s military accused by many citizens of not doing enough to rescue the girls, the hunters demonstrated their skills to an Associated Press reporter on Sunday. With cow horn trumpets echoing eerie war cries from the screaming and chanting men who twirled knives and swords with dexterity, occasionally stabbing and cutting themselves with no apparent harm. The hunters claimed their magic charms prevented any blood being drawn.

They also trust amulets of herbs and other substances wrapped in leather pouches as well as cowrie shells, animal teeth and leather bracelets to protect them from bullets.

The appearance of the hunters from three northeastern states underscores how deeply the April 15 mass kidnapping — and the government’s apparent lack of action — has affected Nigerian society.

A spokesman for the hunters stopped short of actually criticizing the military.

“We’re not saying we are better than the soldiers, but we know the bush better than the soldiers,” said Sarkin Baka. The hunters said they gathered here at the suggestion of a state legislator.

Nigeria’s military insists that it is diligently searching for the girls and says near-daily aerial bombardments of the forest that began in mid-January were stopped to avoid accidentally hitting the girls.

“Our troops are out there combing the forests and all other possible locations searching for our fellow citizens. International support is also there assisting the process,” Mike Omeri, a government spokesman, said Friday.

Some parents of the abducted girls say villagers in the Sambisa Forest tell them they haven’t seen a uniformed soldier in the forest.

Meanwhile, the hunters say they are reaching the end of their patience.

While we fully support the #BringBackOurGirls movement , Nigeria’s mass kidnapping wasn’t the first and won’t be the last horrific crime committed by Boko Haram. The terror and kidnappings won’t end if we don’t stop their leader, Abubakar Shekau. #STOPSHEKAU!

It’s clear something more needs to be done. These mass kidnappings weren’t the first and won’t be the last time we hear from Boko Haram and its terrorist leader, Abubakar Shekau. The only way to stop this violence is to #STOPSHEKAU. Click the Action Link above to sign our petition to #STOPSHEKAU and learn about other ways to help out, and please share this story to raise awareness about this important issue. Don’t just read the news; Become the News!
