
VIJAYAWADA: Amidst apprehensions that release of water for kharif crops may become a prickly issue, governor  ESL Narasimhan has directed the irrigation department to set up a committee to examine water management in projects in Telangana and AP till the Centre sets up river authority boards. The  bifurcation bill mandated formation of river boards for Krishna and Godavari projects within 60 days after the Appointed Day (June 2).

Officials told the governor that the Centre may take at least three months to constitute the river boards and that any delay in the formation of river boards is expected to push water management, particularly in the Krishna delta into serious trouble.

The governor, therefore, directed the irrigation department to set up a committee to coordinate with both state governments.

L Narayana Reddy. ENC (irrigation) C Muralidhar (Telangana) and ENC, Polavaram, M Venkateswara Rao (Seemandhra) will be members of the committee. In case of any controversy between the two governments on water release, the committee is expected to seek the intervention of the governor. Sources said an action plan has been drawn up for the release of water from Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar depending on water reserves in the projects. Although officials wanted to follow the precedents on water release, they are worried about the decisions of the elected governments in separate states.

"There would be no problem if reservoirs are full with water before the kharif season. There could be some trouble if the reservoirs have little water, making both governments insist on water for their own states," a senior official said.

The Centre, however, would take the final call on water release once the river boards come into existence to give no scope to any state government to take undue advantage. At present, water level in Srisailam stands at 834 ft against the FRL of 885 ft and Sagar at 517 ft against FRL of 590.

Both reservoirs have scanty water at present and only heavy rains will enable officials to release water.
