
Some 300 delegates to the World Economic Forum-Asia Summit would arrive starting tomorrow. I wonder how these visitors would feel as they pass through NAIA Terminal 1. The air-conditioning is not working. Trash and other structures are all over— clearly, there is need to refurbish one of the worst airports of the world, if it is not the worst already.

Of course, we cannot expect them to complain of the humidity and sweltering heat inside the terminal building. But I am certain they would be telling themselves how Jurassic our premier international gateway has become!

Blame it all on President Aquino who cannot seem to get rid of his friend Jose Angel Honrado, who is guilty of criminal neglect and utter incompetence as Naia General Manager. Department of Transportation and Communications Secretary Jun Abaya should also share the blame for lack of vision and planning for the summit.

With so many “Napolists” coming out of the woodwork, implicating  more and more senators and members of the House of Representatives, past and incumbent, people are no longer shocked at how pervasive corruption has become. Indeed it has permeated, top to bottom, all the branches of government.

Once the people lose their faith in government, anarchy prevails.

The people may now be silent about all these. There may be no protests and marches to denounces massive corruption. But, there’s anger and outrage simmering inside the people. Once this blows up, that is where the danger lies.

Coupled with all these is the rising incidence of poverty and joblessness among the people. It appers as though the country is staring at a political abyss!

The only hope now is that 2016 is not too far away. This is when President Aquino would step down.

Really, our leaders should never underestimate the Filipino. While his patience and optimism are legendary, he can only take so much beating.

As a journalist for more than 60 years, both in print and broadcast, I have never seen corruption as pervasive as now. Some of them may have happened in the past administration. Still, the involvement of some people close to the President now in the Cabinet level also implicates the Aquino administration to a great extent.

President Aquino makes everything much worse when he continues to protect them.

Rehabilitation Czar former Senator Ping Lacson has his list, and so does whistleblower association president Sandra Cam. There’s of course, the list that Napoles gave to Justice Secretary Leila de Lima, a list that was submitted to the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee ( I prefer to call it the Yellow Ribbon Committee). Napoles herself has said that she forgot some names, and would want Senator JV Ejercito’s name erased. Whistleblower Benhur Luy himself has his own list.

The Priority Development Assistance Fund has really become the biggest source of corruption in government where legislators, their conduits and subordinates, and others from the executive department act as though it were their own piggy banks.

As for concerns that all these lists will muddle the issue, I believe they will not. It’s now a matter of separating the grain from the chaff.

I have written about the emerging art market in Southeast Asia, specifically in Singapore, and also in and Hong Kong. With Chinese billionaires outnumbering American and European billionaires, both Singapore and Hong Kong have become art hubs.

Last week, Art Basel in Hong Kong showed the world that from a cultural desert, the former Crown Colony has become an arts hub. This kind of event was first held in Basel, Switzerland and Miami, Florida, and it took over HK, as it was, showcasing contemporary and modern art all over Southeast Asia, becoming a phenomenal success and a signature event in Asia.

The auctions are mostly by Sotheby’s and Christie’s. And art lovers and collectors are buying them not anymore for enjoyment alone but for investment.

The sad part of this is that there were only two booths showcasing Filipino contemporary and modern sculpture, paintings and photos. To me, this is truly tragic. The country is missing a lot of things with the emergence of Southeast Asian arts and culture.

Santa Banana, it becomes doubly tragic when we know we have talented Filipino artists in our midst!
