
Sharjah: Applications for the second Sharjah Government Communication Award will be accepted from May 19 until October 31.

The announcement was made by the Sharjah Media Centre (SMC) during a press conference, which took place at the Al Qasba Theatre on Monday. Shaikh Sultan Bin Ahmad Al Qasimi, Chairman of the Sharjah Media Centre, said that there will be a total of 12 categories in this year’s award that cover various aspects of government communication, and several additions to the judging panel.

“The second edition… is a celebration of accomplishment, a stimulation of creativity and a call for the development and appreciation of every effort to improve the relationship between two partners — the government and the public,” said Shaikh Sultan.

The 12 categories are divided into two sections, the selected categories, and the nominated categories.

The selected categories, which are allocated for the GCC area include the Media Personality Award and Leadership in Media Award. This year the selected category will also include the Excellence in Government Communication Award, which will be given to the government communication department of a government institution in the GCC region for its excellence in government communication, both internally and externally.

The nominated categories will also see the addition of new awards.

New categories will include the Best Crisis Management Award- UAE, which will be given to an Emirati government institution or department that dealt with an internal or external crisis successfully. It will also include the Best Strategic Government Communication Plan- UAE Award, which will be given to a government institution or department that has a long-term strategic communication plan aimed at the effective utilisation of social media channels, both traditional and modern.

The award’s judging panel for this year will be led by Ebrahim Al Abed, Director- General of the National Media Council and the Emirates News Agency WAM. It will also include media personalities such as Dr Abdul Rahman Azzi, Dean of the Communications College at the University of Sharjah, and Deputy Head of the judging panel, and Ali Jaber, Dean of the Mohammad bin Rashid School of Communication at the American University in Dubai and Group TV Director of MBC Group Television.

Submissions for the award can be made via its website www.communicationaward.ae. The winners will be selected and honoured during the fourth edition of the International Government Communication Forum (IGCF) which is scheduled for the first quarter of 2015.
