
The generational succession achieved by BJP before Lok Sabha elections should be the guiding principle in NDA's cabinet formation. While Narendra Modi is reaching out to both the old guard and the generation of relatively young leaders who might be eligible for cabinet berths, his focus should be a meritocratic selection of younger elites, in consonance with the development agenda whose effective articulation to voters resulted in an unprecedented mandate for the party. A younger crop of BJP ministers without the ideological baggage of the past would functionally be more suitable to Modi's good governance objective.

Modi must resort to a skilful handling of gerontocrats, L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, who should be persuaded to retire. Joshi, for example, made a hash of his post as HRD minister during the previous  NDA regime; and skilling young people for a 21st century job market has to be a very important part of Modi's deve-lopmental agenda. Modi must now use his PM's prerogative to choose cabinet colleagues ideally qualified to implement the NDA government's policies and programmes. Energetic, productive and goal-oriented ministers, not deadwood clinging to archaic worldviews and political ideas, should be in the cabinet if Modi has to overcome the myriad challenges it will have to deal with.

Surely the pro-change wave that propelled Modi to power was at least in part young India's vote against gerontocracy. Advani and Joshi represent a dominant generation of the past, who must wake up to the leadership transition within BJP. Even if power and its associated privileges are hard to let go, the old elite should take a leaf out of the Hindu way of life — which they profess to believe in — and head for vanaprastha (detachment and retirement) or sanyasa (renunciation of worldly attachments).

The dilemma faced by BJP in accommodating senior leaders in the council of ministers has once again raised a debate on the need to discourage politicians above a certain age from holding political office. The argument is that this is the only way to end geronto-cracy in countries like India, where aged leaders continue in office for the maximum possible years, and encourage more dyna-mic young leaders to hold office. But such an argument is specious for many reasons.

An expiry date for holding political offices goes against the basic tenets of democracy, which decries any discrimination based on physical attributes like age, gender or ethnicity or other attainments like education, income and wealth. More importantly such a bar on age would deprive government leadership of the services of talented politicians with tested abilities and negatively impact on the quality of governance. One should remember that it was P V Narasimha Rao, who became prime minister a few days before his 70th birthday, who was able to strike free from the Nehruvian mould and chart a new vision for India.

In a democracy any young aspirant, who aspires to dislodge older leaders and secure high political office, should work his way up the ladder by dint of hard work, talent and charisma — instead of jumping to the top just by citing youth. History shows us that it is no accident that most strong and visionary leaders the world over have come up from the ranks of mature and time-tested politi-cians who slowly worked their way up the ladder. They often overcome insurmountable odds on the way, giving them the benefit of a certain kind of experience that is hard to replicate in younger leaders. The Hindu way is for youngsters to follow the advice of elders — that's what BJP as a Hindu party should do.
