
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am a video game and technology reporter and critic covering the industry and gaming culture. I cover consumer rights, business communications, crowdfunding and video game news.   You can follow me on Twitter or shoot me an email  if you'd like me to review your game, gear, book, or if you have any questions or comments you'd like to chat about.  Disclosure: Many of the video games I review were provided as free review copies.

Spoilers through season 4 of ‘Game of Thrones’ and the novels follow.

Sunday night’s episode of Game of Thrones spent most of its screen time setting the stage for episodes to come. We’re seven deep with three left to go, and Season 4 looks to have at least one major event prepared for each remaining episode.

Rather than a tightly focused story, following just two or three characters, in Mockingbird we fly all across Westeros and beyond.

In the East we’re introduced to Dany’s odd romance with Daario. Arya and the Hound’s weird synergy continues as the two scrounge their way from the Riverlands to the Eyrie. Tyrion’s torment only grows worse as each of his potential champions turn him down.

The list goes on: Jon Snow’s frustration with Alliser Thorne at the wall; Sansa’s bizarre adventures at the Eyrie; Melisandre, fully nude for quite a while, provoking the queen, convincing her to send her daughter with Stannis; Brienne and Podrick making some headway in their search for Stark girls. Even the Mountain makes an appearance.

I suppose that’s my first quibble with Mockingbird. The episode was a perfectly fine set-up, shifting all the pieces toward the inexorable conclusion of the fourth season.

But the Mountain was hugely disappointing. I always pictured him as much more terrifying—much more than a gargantuan brute. This man who embodies so many horrors—the Hound’s burnt face, the slaughter of the Targaryen babies—is hardly horrible here. He’s just a caricature; a mountain certainly, but a cartoon monster nonetheless.

So much for the Mountain. I’ll take the Imp any day, and Tyrion’s scenes were all terrific.

Bronn’s betrayal was touching in its pragmatism. While Jaime was embarrassed by his inability to champion Tyrion, Bronn takes the matters in stride saying that perhaps he could kill Clegane, but the slightest misstep and he’d be dead.

I’ve really come to like the HBO adaptation of Oberyn, and I’m afraid I like him even more after this episode.

King’s Landing aside, the most important event in tonight’s episode was Littlefinger’s betrayal of the mad Lysa Arryn—Sansa’s aunt, who very nearly throws the girl through the “moon door” after spotting her kissing Littlefinger. Sansa is quite possibly the luckiest and unluckiest character in the show, all at once.

First she’s set to marry the prince and she’ll become queen one day—huzzah! Then it turns out that the prince is a maniac who, prior to even reaching King’s Landing, orders her direwolf killed. Then her father, mother, and brother are all killed, and her two younger brothers are presumed dead as well, leaving a missing Arya, her bastard brother Jon Snow locked away at the Wall, and her aunt Lysa.

But she’s still trapped at King’s Landing and married off to the Imp. As dreadful as she finds this, her luck is on her side again in this, as Tyrion is one of the only good men in King’s Landing. Then she’s rescued and taken to the Eyrie to her last remaining family—and both Lysa and her son Robin turn out to be completely and utterly insane. Seriously, as bad as things were in King’s Landing, at least they didn’t have a Moon Door. One imagines Joffrey would have quite liked that toy.

So Sansa finds herself in the clutches of her aunt, sprung from one horrible fate and about to meet one just as terrifying. And then Littlefinger shows up.

Of course, he doesn’t so much come to the rescue as he accelerates his ambitions, convincing Lysa to let Sansa go before tossing the poor, lovesick lunatic into the void. “My sweet silly jealous wife,” he tells her, just before the plunge. “I’ve only loved one woman, I promise you. Your sister.” (This is taken almost verbatim from the book, and oh what a gloriously awful thing to say to someone right before you kill them. Littlefinger is diabolical.) At least he didn’t kill her at their wedding….

I’m still not sure what his overarching plans or strategy is at this point, but Littlefinger has just established himself lord of the Eyrie, and Sansa seems a very likely bride.

After all, Petyr even tells the Stark girl that she’s more beautiful than Catelyn ever was. But how does he plan to use the Eyrie to his advantage? It’s a terrific defensive point, but he wouldn’t have the ability to strike out. And it’s unlikely that he’s in league with the Boltons or the Freys, though he is allied with at least certain members of House Tully. Sansa is a strong claim to the north, and Petyr has the Vale Vale , but I’m still uncertain where he can maneuver to from here.

Speaking of Stark girls, Arya and the Hound get a few great moments of their own in Mockingbird. Arya is becoming more ruthless with each passing episode, more and more like the man she’s captive to, and less and less like his captive. She stabs a man that tries to kill the Hound when it turns out he was one of her former captors, and she doesn’t flinch. Killing is easy for the youngest Stark girl.

I’m still weary of the Dany storyline, and Mockingbird didn’t help sway me on that front. I’m not sure that HBO can really do much to change my mind on this, either, given the source material.

I just find it very, very difficult to care about Yunkai or Meereen or the rest. My one favorite character in this narrative is Barristan, but the show has completely ignored and undermined him as a character.

Brienne and Podrick have an interesting run-in with Arya’s old friend Hot Pie, and he gives them their first clue that Arya may in fact still be alive—the first anyone outside of the Hound and the outlaws have heard of her. I’m enjoying Podrick and Brienne’s banter so far as well. They may not be Arya and the Hound, but they’re a good pair.

I think there is a legitimate argument to be made that this was the best Game of Thrones episode yet aired across all the seasons. It may not have been as significant all things considered as either of the wedding episodes but Mockingbird had the most amount of screen time given to the things I like with the least amount of time on the things I hate.

My continuing concern about season 4 is that things I have been wanting to happen are indeed happening. Seasons 1-3 were all about wrecking what I wanted to happen. This season seems eerily compliant with what I want for the show….I keep waiting for the Season 4 Red Wedding moment.

you do know this is based on a book-series? And it cannot deviate too far from it? But nevertheless, rest assured, winter IS coming… for quite a few of your favourite characters.

You nailed the part about the Mountain.

I remember when they introduced him in season one being a little cartoonish, too, like he was an incidental character there to make the episode more bloody. The trick is they never elaborated on him like in the books as a legendary soldier, and now we seemingly know they never will. It’s reminiscint of Selmy, except we see Selmy frequently enough to be reminded how disappointing it is to know him so little and see his actions even less.

What was the Mountain doing, anyway? It looked like he was just massacreing slaves? It felt more executionor-like than relentless warrior. Of course, being played by a new actor I’m sure doesn’t help remind the audience of the character they met four seasons ago.

Yet other than the Mountain, it felt like most episodes; not much really happens at all but drama. Lysa taking a “moonwalk” is one thing, but the rest is talk; it’s drama. It’s the “game” in the Game of Thrones. I hadn’t hoped to see Podrick again for a long time (there’s more interesting stuff going on), but even that scene was interesting for being all talk.

I’m not sure we got enough from Oberyn’s motivations in his talk with Tyrion, but that may be because I just want to see more of him on the screen. I love the tragic backstory between the Martells, Starks, Baratheons, Targerians and Lannisters, I just always want more of it.

Yeah, he was just being cartoon evil. It was a silly way to reintroduce his character.

Wasn’t he pretty cartoon evil in the books as well? Martin says he’s a fan of painting grey characters, but there was never anything even remotely grey about the Mountain. He was just a horrible man who did horrible things, often for no reason at all other than that he enjoyed them.

I agree that the show has failed to really detail just how terrible the Mountain is, but let’s not pretend he’s anything other than a caricature in the books either. He’s not a deep character in either format. We just know more about him in the books.

@Jack, I saw the Mountain’s “cartoon evil” as more of a side effect; he’s a giant, but also a knight, and known for being angry. He’s the head of his house, which has to have some importance, and he even advises Tywin Lannister directly, not to mention his connection with the Starks (both before and after he burns Catelyn’s homelands). The Mountain is more important and relevant in the books and almost completely absent in the TV show; they even elaborate on a possible medical reason for his temper in the books.

Don’t forget, he killed Beric Dondarrion at least twice. I think part of the problem is despite all the war in the show we very rarely saw any of it, and the Mountain was often on the front lines.

Cersei chose Gregor for the trial by combat to prevent Bronn or anyone else from attempting to defend Tyrion, only we never get any elaboration of that from the show. Instead, we just see a giant from paper towel commercials cutting chained slaves in half. He’s big, he’s mean, and that is all.

Bottom line, we literally know more about Hot Pie than the Mountain by this time in the show. It’s hard not to charicterize him as more than cartoonish.

The Mountain of the books is not a nuanced character, but the first season’s Mountain who flew into a psychotic rage upon losing a jousting match, killing his horse and trying to kill his opponent, seemed more like the one I expected from the books. I wouldn’t have recognized the first actor who replaced him as “The Mountain” but for occasional references to the man as “Ser Clegane”.

It doesn’t bother me that “The Mountain” is a six foot nine, muscle-bound, 400 pound actor, as the book character is called “The Mountain” because of his enormous size. He’s described in the books as weighing 30 stone (420 pounds), having “massive shoulders and arms thick as the trunk of small trees”, able to wield a two-handed sword with one hand, and wearing battle armor so heavy that an ordinary man would not be able to move while wearing it. He’s strong enough to crush a man’s head with his hands. He’s also cruel, stupid, and inclined toward homicidal rages.

The new actor surprised me by (again) looking so unlike his predecessor, although he does resemble the first season’s actor. The scene did seem a bit cartoonish… okay, a lot… and although the bizarre training exercise in which Clegane chopped his sparring partners into pieces does suggest a level of psychotic rage, in the subsequent discussion he seemed calm and rational as opposed to angry and impulsive.

As for why this particular actor was chosen? Perhaps his coming pretty close to the book’s description of Clegane was part of it, but I suspect that his upcoming scenes are going to depict acts of extraordinary strength. The new actor (Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson), a veteran of numerous strongman competitions, is capable of performing that type of act without the use of any special effects.

Since the introduction of Oberyn (talking with Tyrion in the brothel?) he has been expounding on his goal in life of getting revenge on Gregor Clegane. It would be strange if he WASN’T Tyrion’s Champion.

“Mete” out justice. Not “meet” as in “Let’s meet for tea and crumpets”.

It’s “mete out justice”, not “meet”, and “than the man who killed”, not “then” .

Loved this episode. I especially like the poignancy of the characters’ current natures being so molded by their childhoods. Baelish said something to the effect that he wished the world were motivated by love, instead of by strength and duty–but much of what the action in the series –good and bad–is motivated by love: Baelish’s love for Caitlin; Caitlin freeing Jaime to get back her daughters; Robb breaking his oath out of love for his wife; Ned entering into a disastrous bargain out of love and concern for his daughters. It may be that some of the worst things that have happened had their roots in love.

Although it may be possible to view Littlefinger as acting as he does out of unrequited love, I think that the emotion that most drives the character is envy. It’s not just love — his obsession with Catelyn and his envy of Ned Stark that leads him to betray them both. His apparent willingness to accept Sansa as a substitute for Catelyn seems to me to be a product of his creepy obsession, not of love.

Your comment, “I’m still not sure what his overarching plans or strategy is at this point”, evokes one of my concerns about the series. When I finished reading book three, I was eager to read the next book. By the time I finished book five, I found myself ready for the next book but with no sense of urgency, and with a part of me wondering if the solution I might imagine for myself in the absence of the continuation of the series might be more satisfying than the author’s conclusion.

That apparently concerns Martin as well, and as I recall he’s made comments about his not wanting to disappoint his fans, or having them feel like the audience of Lost, drawn in by its interesting and ambitious beginning, but largely left feeling cheated and disappointed by its resolution.

The series will end this season more or less at the end of the third book. From here we get two large books that take place over the same period of time as the prior books — but while a lot happens over the course of those two books, lots of twists, turns and cliffhangers, lots of events involving the major characters, it’s almost all set-up for the resolution of the story so it feels (at least to me) like there is little forward momentum. I think the next books will be difficult to adapt, not only because of the proliferation of story lines but also because of the need to keep the story sufficiently focused to sustain audience interest for reasons greater than the amount of time they’ve already committed to watching the show.

How many seasons can reasonably be drawn from books four and five based on substance, as opposed to volume? At a certain point, even if Martin has not yet written book six, HBO is going to forge ahead with the story. We’ve seen hints that it is already doing so.

I say HBO is already forging ahead with its own story, even its own characters (or at least their reimagining of those characters with different traits and personalities). Death doesn’t even stop character progression necesarily in the books, so we’ll see what HBO does with their version of the property.

2) Arya stabbed a fellow captive, not a captor. The man she stabbed was imprisoned in a caged cart with J’Qhen Hagar (the Faceless Man) and the man with the sharpened teeth. All of them, Arya Stark included, were being taken to the Wall by Yoren of the Night’s Watch.

Littlefinger’s “new friends” are the Tyrells, not the Tullys. Also, the guy Arya stabbed was not her captor, he was a fellow “captive” being brought to the Wall by Yoren of the Night’s Watch.

While this episode covered whats everyone doing in Westeros it made me think of all the other characters we have no clue what happened to them, like Blackfish or his nephew is he still alive?, or is Gendry still rowing in that boat? The Band without Banners and probably couple of more i forgot and who might or not show up in the future.

It is hard to fit everything in just 10 episodes so its no surprise when they make the Mountain seem cartoonish and use the ‘ol Hollywood tricks to show someone is evil (show them kill someone or they listen to classical music or have some strange hobby and if possible all three) but they seem to do that a lot this season sadly.

Also anyone else finding the timezones the events happening confusing and strange, like Davos and Stannis reaching the Iron bank so fast, Sansa moving from Kingslanding to the Eyr so fast, yet the Hound and Arya seem to be sitting in the same place as we just saw the bounty on the Hound set and they already caught up with them…do they have cellphones in Westeros? Snow went to Caster’s keep and back also too fast.

(Spoilers ahead) Kinda sad to see Bronn go and think this will be the last time we see him if they didnt change something, Oberyn was also a great addition this season and i keep fighting myself not to get too attached and a part of me hopes he will make it.

I think he’s got a better shot at making it in the series. I’ve been wondering about how Dorn will play out in the coming seasons. I like Indira Varma as well and its silly to have an actress like that play such a limited role.

Ha I thought the exact opposite about the mountain. I thought of all of that type of character that I’ve ever seen, this was done best.
