
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

In a harshly worded rebuke to an Alabama State University attorney, U.S. Attorney George Beck said the FBI never offered to enter into a "partnership" with ASU and chided the school's leadership and attorneys for failing to cooperate with an ongoing forensic audit at the school.

Beck, the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama, sent the letter to ASU attorney Donald Watkins in response to an email from Watkins asking Beck for a "practical resolution" to the forensic audit that was ordered by Gov. Robert Bentley. In his email, sent May 11, Watkins said the ongoing forensic audit was affecting the school's standing in the eyes of credit rating agencies and other accounting firms.

Watkins also reported to the ASU board of trustees at its last meeting May 9 that the head of the FBI's Montgomery office, special agent Kelvin King, had extended an offer of a partnership to the school.

Beck's reply came May 15, and its tone is heavy from the open, as Beck tells Watkins that he feels forced to respond and that he plans to disseminate his response to "anyone affected" by Watkins' email and actions.

"First, the FBI assures me that there is absolutely no basis nor truth to your allegation of any type of 'intragovernmental relationship' or 'partnership' between FBI and ASU," Beck wrote, after promising to not mince words. "Second, in the event that you misunderstood some communication with the FBI, or in the event you perceived some type of potential intragovernmental relationship or partnership with the FBI, you have now been corrected: No such relationship offer was extended, and no such relationship exists between the FBI and you or ASU."

A spokesman for the FBI's Mobile field office, which covers Montgomery, declined to comment directly on the case, but noted that U.S. attorneys prosecute all FBI cases and the two offices work closely together.

Watkins, who provided the Montgomery Advertiser with copies of the letters and emails, said he stands behind what he reported to the board and he questioned why King hasn't responded.

"There were three people in that meeting — myself, ASU general counsel Kenny Thomas and Mr. King," Watkins said. "I want to hear Kelvin King state publicly that there was no offer of a relationship, that I didn't tell him that I would go back to ASU and tell the president and board about that offer. If I can't rely on the FBI's word, they should tell me that up front."

According to Watkins, and corroborated by Thomas, the offer of a relationship was extended by King at the end of a long meeting that was held so Watkins and Thomas could provide the FBI with information. Watkins wouldn't disclose what that information was, but the subject line of an email he sent to King in arranging the meeting was "ASU Referral of Suspected Criminal Activity."

"(King) stated to me that he didn't want the FBI and ASU to have an adversarial relationship," Watkins said. "That's how he began. Then he asked what the FBI could do for ASU. I told him that I'd take that question to the board and president and get back to him, but that there were several things. One that I mentioned to him was the rebranding of the university's public image. (King) said he wanted to meet with president (Gwendolyn) Boyd — that he'd meet her in his office or her office."

To back up his claims, Watkins also provided the Advertiser with two emails he sent to King — one the day after the April 10 meeting and another the day before the ASU board meeting on May 9 — in which Watkins details his recollection of the meeting and King's offer of a relationship. In the letters, Watkins calls the relationship "a new day" for ASU and the FBI.

"There was never any attempt to correct me or tell me that I've misunderstood or ask me what I'm talking about," Watkins said. "I've received responses back from Mr. King to several other things. He's corrected me before. But not on these."

Watkins' recollection of the events stands in stark contrast to what Beck's office found when it looked into Watkins' claims of a relationship between the FBI and ASU.

According to assistant U.S. Attorney Clark Morris, Watkins' claims of a relationship were "heavily investigated," and there was no evidence of any sort of offer from King or anyone else with the FBI or U.S. Attorney's office.

"To say that there was a partnership offer is just ridiculous," Morris said. "That's just not something the FBI does."

Watkins' partnership comments weren't the only things to draw Beck's ire in his letter.

Beck also addressed Watkins' assertion that the prolonged nature of the forensic audit, conducted by the firm Forensic Strategic Solutions, was harming the school's financial standing, saying essentially that if that's the case, ASU officials can only blame themselves. That audit was ordered by Bentley's office in December 2012, following allegations from former president Joseph Silver of improper contracts at the school.

"According to FSS, rather than complying with a request for information, ASU hired a lawfirm to receive and review each financial document before forwarding the information to FSS," Beck wrote. "ASU insisted that FSS go through the lawfirm before it could even contact an ASU employee. This time consuming, legally expensive and unnecessary step not only delayed the forensic investigation, but it also materially increased the legal fee burden to ASU."

Where the FSS audit stands now is a mystery. Bentley's office said last month that it would not extend the contract for FSS, but noted that there was money in the state attorney general's budget earmarked specifically for the ASU investigation. Acting attorney general Chris McCool, who was given the case when Attorney General Luther Strange recused himself, said he has not yet decided whether to continue forensic audit.

At the end of February, the total cost of the 18-month ASU investigation, including audits, attorneys' fees and other expenses, had surpassed $2 million — all of it paid with taxpayer money.

Beck also found fault with a proposed resolution that would pay the legal fees of ASU employees, officers and trustees should criminal or civil trials result from the ongoing federal and state investigations. A proposal with that language was introduced at the May 9 meeting but was tabled. However, an almost identical proposal was previously passed by the board in 2013.

Beck also declined to meet with Watkins or ASU officials, saying a meeting "would not be helpful."

"First, I do not want to find myself in a situation of being misquoted, as the FBI has apparently done," Beck wrote. "Second, the only option for resolving the dilemma in which ASU finds itself is to be frank, open and honest with the FSS investigation, as well its own CPA firm."

In a reply back to Beck, Watkins expressed surprise over the tone of Beck's response, defended  the university's use of a law firm to manage the FSS investigation and provided several details of the meeting between Watkins, Thomas and King.
