
Bosnia says more than a quarter of its population has been affected by the worst floods to hit the Balkans in living memory, comparing the "terrifying" destruction to that of the country's 1992-95 war.

Bosnian foreign minister Zlatko Lagumdzija says about 1 million of the country's 4 million people have been affected by the rising waters and cut off from clean water supplies.

"The consequences ... are terrifying," he told a news conference.

"The physical destruction is not less than the destruction caused by the war."

The extent of the devastation has become apparent in Serbia too, as waters recede in some of the worst-hit areas to reveal homes toppled or submerged in mud, trees felled and villages strewn with the rotting corpses of livestock.

The regional death toll has reached more than 40, after the heaviest rainfall since records began 120 years ago caused rivers to burst their banks and triggered hundreds of landslides.

Mr Lagumdzija says more than 100,000 homes are unusable in Bosnia and at least 25,000 people have been evacuated to Serbia.

"During the war, many people lost everything," he said. "Today, again they have nothing."

His remarks threw into sharp relief the extent of the challenge now facing the cash-strapped governments of both Bosnia and Serbia.

Serbian prime minister Aleksandar Vucic says the cost in Serbia will run to hundreds of millions of euros. President Tomislav Nikolic has appealed for outside aid.

"We expect huge support, because not many countries have experienced such a catastrophe," Mr Nikolic said.

Even as the crisis eased in some areas, a new flood wave from the swollen River Sava threatened others, notably Serbia's largest power plant, the Nikola Tesla complex, 30 kilometres south-west of the capital Belgrade.

In Bosnia, assistant security minister Samir Agic says up to 35,000 people have been evacuated by helicopter, boat and truck.

As many as 500,000 have left their homes of their own accord, he says, in the kind of human displacement not seen since more than a million were driven out by ethnic cleansing in the Bosnian war two decades ago.

Authorities in Bosnia have issued a fresh warning about the danger of landmines left over from the war and now dislodged by the flooding.

Hundreds of volunteers in the Serbian capital have filled sandbags and stacked them along the banks of the Sava. Police have issued an appeal for more bags.

Soldiers and energy workers toiled through the night to build barriers of sandbags to keep the water back from the Nikola Tesla complex and from the coal-fired Kostolac power plant, east of Belgrade.

Djina Trisovic, a union spokeswoman at Serbia's EPS power utility, said some workers at the Nikola Tesla plant had worked three days with barely a break because relief teams could not reach the plant.

"The plant should be safe now," she said. "We've done all we could. Now it's in the hands of God."

The plant provides roughly half of Serbia's electricity.

Parts of it have already been shut down as a precaution, but it will have to be powered down completely if the waters breach the defences.

Flooding has already caused considerable damage, estimated by the government at over $147 million, to the Kolubara coal mine that supplies the plant.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
