
Hillary Clinton shouting "What difference does it make?" over the Benghazi talking points or Sarah Palin stating that "waterboarding is how we baptize terrorists" show how quickly one comment can set off predictable stampedes of offended reactions on either side of our political divide. Angry petitions and calls for resignation soon follow. As unwise as these comments may be, are you beginning to get offended by those who are chronically offended? A culture that supports freedom of speech is going to have some "offensive" comments.

People on both sides of the aisle, including this columnist, have at times written immediate, emotional responses or emails that would have been far more effective if seasoned with 24 hours of aging and some needed editing. We used to have secretaries who would respond to a heated transcription before any letter was sent, "Do you think 'Bug Brain' is the right salutation?"

There's truth in the words of George Bernard Shaw, “Critics, like other people, see what they look for, not what is actually before them.” The comments, choices and actions of any president are seen entirely differently by an applauding supporter and a suspicious opponent. One is moved; the other is saying, "Liar, Liar!" Selective scanning is hard to overcome.

With political enemies, strong emotion can easily take precedence over better dialogue and understanding. When conversations become strained, the opposing party faithful take distance or grab for the nearest political weapons to arm themselves for battle. After all, when in pain, find someone to blame...from the other party.

Far too many of us limit our political conversations to those we safely agree with. We watch and listen to the political commentators that reinforce our views. Distance and polarization are the result. From a distance, we scan for ammunition to support our distance and project suspicious motives for even positive gestures. After all, if the enemy party or candidate does anything positive, they must be "up to something."

If your relationships with members of the other party are limited to distance and name calling, expect polarization. The result of such political polarization is the same--everyone loses. It doesn't have to be that way.

Ultimately, the only person you control is yourself. Change your own behavior, and you just may impact the behavior, the opinions and the votes of others. It starts when you can work through your own political biases to actually listen to and understand the views of others.

After overhearing comments regarding a political adversary, Abraham Lincoln reportedly said, "I don't like that man. I must get to know him better." Ronald Reagan expressed the same sentiment: "I have always believed that a lot of the troubles in the world would disappear if we were talking to each other instead of about each other." Instead of being trapped by selective scanning or calling people names, I think Ronald Reagan and Abraham Lincoln would have wanted all Americans to talk about the things that matter most to the future of America...even with the 28 million Americans who voted for the "other candidate."

TOWNHALL DAILY: Be the first to read Terry Paulson's column. Sign up today and receive Townhall.com daily lineup delivered each morning to your inbox.

Townhall is packed with breaking news headlines, political news, and conservative opinion with Townhall columnists including Ann Coulter, Michelle Malkin, Michael Barone, Star Parker, Dennis Prager, Thomas Sowell, and many more of your favorite conservatives.                     Political cartoons full of satire and political humor from editorial cartoonists including Michael Ramirez, Glenn McCoy, and Henry Payne.

Townhall.com also features the latest news videos and pictures on the latest political hot topics including health care reform, the economy, immigration, government tax, President Obama, Sarah Palin, Mitt Romney, Herman Cain, Ron Paul, Iraq, immigration, politics, gay marriage laws, and many more big news issues.

Townhall Magazine is our monthly print magazine that offers more exclusive investigative journalism, in-depth reporting, analysis, interviews with the heavy hitters and powerful exposés.
