
News of Riverton, Lander and Fremont County, Wyoming, from the Ranger's award winning journalists.

About two dozen Fremont County residents filed for political office through Friday.

The formal filing period opened Thursday and continues through May 30 for partisan candidates in county, state and national offices, as well as for nonpartisan municipal offices. The primary election is Aug. 19, with the general election Nov. 4.

Only one local candidate for Wyoming Senate filed Thursday: Republican incumbent Cale Case of Lander made official his desire to continue representing Senate District 25. He gained an opponent Friday, when both Jennifer McCarty and Joe Malek of rural Lander filed for the same seat.

Republicans Jim Allen of Lander and Daniel Cardenas of St. Stephen's filed for Wyoming House District 33. They filed Thursday and Friday, respectively. Democrat Patrick Goggles is retiring. No Democrats have filed yet, although it is expected.

State Rep. Rita Campbell, R-Shoshoni, will have a primary opponent. Longtime Republican leader Pat Moore of Dubois filed for the House District 34 seat on Friday.

Three Republican incumbents filed for Wyoming House races: Rita Campbell of Shoshoni for House District 34, Lloyd Larsen of Lander for House District 54 and David Miller of Riverton for House District 55.

Travis Becker of Riverton is the only Fremont County commissioner who had filed for re-election as of Thursday evening. The Republican wants to continue representing District 3.

Two men who want to be Fremont County's next coroner filed Thursday: Mark Stratmoen of Riverton and Dominick Weigel of Lander. Both candidates filed as Republicans.

As he had announced, Fremont County Treasurer Scott Harnsberger filed for re-election Friday.

Deputy county attorney Patrick LeBrun of Riverton filed as a Republican candidate for Fremont County Attorney on Thursday. Sheriff Skip Hornecker of Lander and Mark Stone of Riverton both filed as Republicans for Fremont County Sheriff.

Fremont County Clerk Julie Freese filed Thursday as a Republican to stay at her post, as did Fremont County Assessor Tara Berg and Fremont County Clerk of District Court Kristi Green. All three women live in Lander.

Former Lander Mayor and State Rep. Del McOmie filed for Lander mayor, joining Dan Hahn, setting up a primary for that job. Ed Patik filed for Lander City Council in Ward 2. Monte Richardson is a candidate for the Lander City Council Ward 1 seat, and Nancy Pieropan is a candidate for the Lander City Council Ward 3 seat.

Appointed incumbent Kyle Larson filed Friday to keep the seat to which he was named earlier this year.

Dubois Mayor Twila Blakeman filed for another term. Lea Delay filed for Shoshoni Town Council.

The mayor's race already is contested in Riverton, with Lars Baker and Richard Gard both filing Thursday.

Through Friday only one of three announced Republican candidates for Wyoming governor had field -- Republican Taylor Haynes of Cheyenne.

Saturday at the Wyoming Democratic Party convention, Pete Gosar of Laramie announced that he would run for governor.

Ed Murray of Cheyenne and Clark Stith of Rock Springs filed Thursday as Republicans running for Secretary of State, and Republican Ed Buchanan of Torrington joined them on Friday.

Republican Cynthia Cloud of Cody wants to stay on as Wyoming State Auditor; she filed Thursday. Appointed incumbent Wyoming State Treasurer Mark Gordon filed for a full term on Friday.

One Republican and one Democrat already have filed to replace State Superintendent of Public Instruction Cindy Hill: Republican Jillian Balow and Democrat Mike Ceballos, both of Cheyenne, submitted their paperwork Thursday.
