
ATTORNEY General Githu Muigai has told the Law Society of Kenya to direct its fury over the Anglo Leasing cases to his predecessor Amos Wako. He was responding to LSK's ultimatum demanding his resignation.

 President Uhuru has also criticised the AG's Office and demanded that they up their game. LSK has also threatened to strip Githu off his senior counsel status.

 Yesterday, Githu said besides Wako, people responsible for the deals have been spared. “I was not the Attorney General when the contracts were approved, when the matter was taken to court and when the defence was prepared. We have been dealing with an aftermath,” Githu told the Star yesterday.

 Musalia Mudavadi, the UDF party leader was the minister of transport at the time. Chris Obure, now a Senator was the finance minister. Francis Chahonyo was the Post-Master General at the time while Sammy Kyungu was the PS. They were all named adversely in the saga.

 LSK says Deputy Solicitor General Muthoni Kimani wrote a letter on August 11, 2008 directing government advocates handling the case not to advance the defence of bribery and corruption. Both Githu and LSK concur that the cases were doomed from that day.

 “The senior deputy solicitor general has filed an extensive affidavit providing full and frank disclosure of all the proceedings in the Swiss and UK courts regarding this long protracted cases which commenced in 2006 long before I went to work in the state law office,” Githu said in statement.

 LSK blames Githu for the “suspicious circumstances” under which he appears to have withdrawn instructions in December 2013 from the foreign advocates and the “unprocedurall” manner in which his office took over the conduct of the case.

 For instance, the LSK says Solicitor General Njee Muturi presented himself to before the London Court last December to defend the case yet he did not have a licence to practice in England and Wales. “Effectively the Kenya Government did not have legal representation in the suit and the proceedings are a nullity,” he said.

 On Friday, Uhuru said the cases could have been won. He said there was enough evidence that the cases deals were fraudulent. LSK picked on the matter and demanded that Githu resigns.
