
A RECORD increase in asking prices for homes has led to escalating fears that an unsustainable property boom could jeopardise the economic recovery.

New figures published today show house sellers’ asking prices rose by 8.9 per cent in the year to May – the highest ever increase at this time of year resulting in all time high of £272,003.

Much of this has been fuelled by massive rises in London house prices, but estate agents confirmed the buoyant market is leading to vendors in Yorkshire raising expectations and in some cases asking too much.

Figures from Rightmove show Yorkshire had the biggest increase in asking prices outside of the South of England this month.

The latest figures come as the Governor of the Bank of England Mark Carney voiced concerns that Britain’s booming housing market was the “biggest risk” facing the UK economy.

Mr Carney signalled he was ready to take action to cool Britain’s surging housing market. The Bank could impose a new “affordability test” for borrowers and advise the Government to rein in its controversial Help to Buy scheme –which provides taxpayer-backed mortgages for first-time buyers.

The Governor also warned that an increase in approvals for large mortgages could lead to another “big debt overhang” building up.

The latest figures show a month-on-month increase in asking prices in May of 3.6 per cent, or £9,409, the highest ever seen for the time of year. In Yorkshire the figure was 2.7 per cent, the highest rise in the North and Midlands.

London led the way with a 16.3 per cent year-on-year increase, compared with 4.9 per cent in the rest of the country.

However, Paul Wilson of Dacre Son and Hartley in Leeds claimed London’s increases were having a knock-on effect further north.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has  called for curbs to the Government’s Help to Buy scheme but housing and regeneration specialist Keepmoat said that efforts should be focused on supporting house builders.

The Doncaster-based firm, which specialises in regenerating brownfield sites, has taken 1,578 reservations in the 2013/14 financial year – a rise of 63 per cent. Keepmoat had 882 Help to Buy reservations in the 2013/14 financial year which accounted for 56 per cent of the total.

Chief executive Dave Sheridan said: “To eliminate the chance of a residential property bubble we believe house builders should be given help to supply more homes. Help to Buy is helping hard-working people with small deposits get their foot on the property ladder.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Yorkshire Post provides news, events and sport features from the Yorkshire area. For the best up to date information relating to Yorkshire and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
