
Gay rights activists eagerly awaited a federal judge's decision on the constitutionality of Oregon's ban on marriage equality Monday, expecting a positive outcome. Meanwhile, the National Organization for Marriage, or NOM, failed to win a last-minute delay in the case.

Last week, U.S. District Judge Michael McShane denied the group's attempt to intervene in the case. On Monday, NOM tried again, this time asking the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals for an emergency stay , in order to give the group time to argue why it should be allowed to intervene.

At issue was the fact that Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, like other attorneys general around the country, declined to defend the law, arguing that it is indeed unconstitutional and violates the equal protection rights of same-sex couples.

"This case is an ugly example of inappropriate cooperation between the Attorney General and the gay marriage lobby, both of whom want to redefine marriage in contravention of the overwhelming decision of the people to define marriage as the union of one man and one woman," said Brian S. Brown, NOM president. "The people of Oregon are entitled to a defense of their decision on marriage rather than being abandoned in Court."

The Ninth Circuit, however, denied NOM's request, clearing the way for McShane to strike down the state's ban on same-sex marriage Monday afternoon.

Meanwhile, NOM faced more bad news from the state of Maine.

The Maine Commission on Governmental Ethics and Election Practices issued a scathing report , faulting the group for failing to register as a ballot question committee and file campaign finance reports while working to defeat the state's marriage equality law in 2009. The commission called it a " significant violation of the law ," and the group could face fines of more than $50,000 and be ordered to reveal its donors.

NOM gave nearly $2 million to Stand for Marriage Maine, an amount that comprised 64 percent of the PAC's total expenditures. Marriage equality later became legal in a 2012 referendum.

A hearing on the commission's recommendations have been scheduled for May 28, and NOM promised to contest the findings.

"NOM strongly denies the findings of the staff report in Maine," John Eastman, the group's chairman, said in a statement. "We did not raise funds designated for the Maine campaign and fully complied with Maine law. The staff has ignored uncontested sworn evidence from donors that we did not designate any contributions for the referendum effort and instead has focused on circumstantial evidence to support its conclusion when a fair reading of those circumstances suggests the opposite. We look forward to presenting our case to the full Commission."

Marc Solomon is national campaign director for Freedom to Marry, which is pushing for the legalization of same-sex marriage nationwide. He argued that the confluence of news Monday was essentially a death knell for NOM.

"From coast to coast, today was a particularly bad day for NOM," said Solomon. "They were finally called on the carpet and fined for flouting campaign finance laws and illegally hiding their donors in Maine, while their desperate attempt to keep committed couples in Oregon from marrying failed. Perhaps it's time for them to consider moving on."

Nationwide, polls show increased support for marriage equality, and same-sex marriage is now legal in 18 states plus the District of Columbia. Even opponents have acknowledged the writing on the wall.

Maggie Gallagher co-founded NOM in 2007, but has since stepped down from leading the organization. She sounded a pessimistic note in her final syndicated column in January, in which she reflected on her battles over the years.

"As I lay down this syndicated column after 17 years ... [i]t is a good time though to reflect on the trends : On every key measure, marriage is weaker. The consequences are more obviously unsustainable, yet culturally powerful voices are less willing to engage, and the power of porn and Hollywood to create our norms for family life is more triumphant than ever," she wrote.

NOM has struggled financially in recent years, as it has spent millions unsuccessfully trying to ward off advances in marriage equality.

New York lawmakers legalized same-sex marriage on July 24, 2011, making it the largest state at the time to pass such legislation.

Voters in Maryland approved marriage equality in the November 2012 election.  Initially, the gay marriage bill was signed into law by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) on March 1, 2012, but opponents gathered enough signatures to force the issue back onto the ballot. With the passing of marriage equality, same-sex marriage ceremonies began on Jan. 1, 2013.

Connecticut's Supreme Court ruled that same-sex couples had the right to marry on Nov. 12, 2008, making it the third state in the nation to do achieve marriage equality.

Iowa's Supreme Court ruled the state's gay marriage ban unconstitutional on April 3, 2009.

Maine made history in the November 2012 election when it became the first state to pass marriage equality on the ballot.   Human Rights Campaign President Chad Griffin said, "Voters in Maine came to the common-sense conclusion that all people deserve the ability to make loving, lifelong commitments through marriage."  Just three years ago, a popular vote overturned legislation that would have legalized same-sex marriage in the state.

Massachusetts became the first state in the nation to  legalize same-sex marriage on May 17, 2004. The state's Supreme Court initially found the ban on gay marriage unconstitutional on Nov. 18, 2003.

Same-sex couples were able to begin seeking marriage licenses on Jan. 1, 2010.

Vermont, which invented civil unions, became the first state to legalize gay marriage through a legislature's vote -- overriding the governor's veto. Same-sex couples were able to begin marrying on Sept, 1, 2009.

Gay couples were able to begin marrying in the nation's capital on March 9, 2010.

The state initially began conducting gay marriages on June 16, 2008. On November 5, 2008, however, California voters passed Proposition 8, which amended the state's constitution to declare marriage as only between a man and a woman.  On June 26, 2013, by a 5-4 vote, the Supreme Court justices held in Hollingsworth v. Perry that the traditional marriage activists who put Proposition 8 on California ballots in 2008 did not have the constitutional authority, or standing, to defend the law in federal courts after the state refused to appeal its loss at trial, opening the door for marriages to resume in the state.

On February 13, 2012, Gov. Christine Gregoire (D) signed a law allowing same-sex marriage ceremonies to begin on June 7, 2012. The process was delayed by gay marriage opponents who gathered enough signatures to put the issue up to a state vote in November 2012.  Gay marriage passed on November 7, 2012. The official determination for Washington did not come until one day after the election because of the state's mail-in voting system.

Gay marriage came to Rhode Island when Governor Lincoln Chafee signed the marriage equality bill into law on May 2, 2013.

Delaware obtained gay marriage when Governor Jack Markell signed the marriage equality bill it into law on May 7, 2013.

Minnesota same-sex couples achieved marriage equality when Gov. Mark Dayton signed the legislation into law on May 14, 2013.

Newark Mayor Cory Booker began marrying same-sex couples at City Hall at 12:01 a.m. on Oct. 21, 2013.

Hawaii Gov. Neil Abercrombie signed same-sex marriage into law on Nov. 13, 2013, making it the 15th state to pass such legislation.

Illinois became the 16th state to legalize gay marriage, with the House having passed the bill on Nov. 5. and Gov. Pat Quinn signing the legislation on Nov. 20.

On Dec. 19, the New Mexico Supreme Court unanimously ruled that same-sex marriage rights are protected under the Constitution.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
