
Every week, Wired takes a look at the latest episode of Mad Men through the lens of the latest media campaign of advertising agency Sterling Cooper & Partners.

“What if there was a place where you could go where there was no TV, and you could break bread, and whoever you were sitting with was family?” This isn’t just the new Burger Chef advertising angle that Peggy Olson had been searching for—the strategy that gave last night’s Mad Men its title. It’s damn near a mission statement for the whole series, now entering its home stretch. Back in Season One, Don’s legendary “Carousel” pitch leveraged nostalgia for family as the ultimate inducement to buy. Nearly a decade later, the definition of family is changing, but the need for what it represents—safety, loyalty, love—has never been stronger. Don, Peggy, Pete, Joan, and Bob have all learned this the hard way. Now they’re gonna use it to sell burgers.

The irony hangs thicker in the air than the steam in Roger Sterling’s sauna. For one thing, Peggy has sussed out that Burger Chef’s real job is to stop Mom from making the traditional family dinner (and thereby putting them out of business). For another, even the “family happiness” angle that unctuous old Lou Avery approved was based on painting the parents’ relationship as something illicit: When the mom kisses the dad through the window in that initial campaign, both their kids and the viewer are briefly supposed to think he’s Another Man.

Finally, look at the trio responsible for the new angle. There’s Don, a divorcé whose new wife lives on another coast and can barely bear to be away from her fondue pot, a man who says he can’t even remember if he and his family ever had an old-fashioned family dinner. There’s Pete, who can’t even manage to be a divorcé, joining the Mile High Club with his talented and gorgeous girlfriend but still swaggering around his not-quite-ex-wife’s kitchen like the lord of the manor, until she reminds him he’s not part of their family anymore. And Peggy, a woman who just hit her head so hard on the glass ceiling she probably has a concussion, who looked through the station-wagon windows of a hundred harried housewives and found something to envy rather than pity, who’s lying about her age and is only not a working mother herself because she gave up the kid she had with Pete for adoption.

But what Pete and Don lost, and what Peggy never had, Joan’s still hoping for. She didn’t get it from Roger, who wasn’t yet ready to divorce his wife and settle down with a new one. She didn’t get it from her ex-husband, who raped her to prove his own vitality to himself, then preferred Vietnam to actually being a member of Joan’s family. But she’s not going to settle for being Bob Benson’s beard, no matter how good he is with her mom or her kid (or herself—until his insulting claim that he was the best she’d ever do this episode, he was actually pretty great company). “I want love,” she tells him, “and I’d rather die hoping that happens than make some arrangement.

“And you should too,” she adds, but it’s tough to blame Bob for not listening. He’s just seen a successful executive get the shit kicked out of him for coming on to an undercover cop, yet still feel comfortable enough in the cab ride back from the station house to thank god his wife understands his needs. “We can comfort each other in an uncertain world” is how Bob pitched a marriage to Joan; after a car ride like that one, a little certainty would look pretty damn good.

So we end with our ersatz family. Pete, Peggy, and Don have done tremendous emotional violence to each other, yet there they sit: Pete, so loyal to Don at this point that he fights to give him more influence and power where once he literally tried to destroy his life. Peggy, no longer treating every interaction with Don as a genderbent Oedipal struggle, drawing on his wisdom and leaning on his support but still making her own decisions. And Don, minding the food smeared on Pete’s face like Pete’s nanny did with his daughter earlier in the episode, backing off as Peggy tells Pete the score. And lest you think we’re not supposed to think this is all a big deal, the show introduced this central idea by having Don and Peggy slow dance to Frank Sinatra’s “My Way.” She puts her head on his chest. He kisses her hair. “I did it my way,” Sinatra sings, as the show takes its two main characters and connects them more closely than ever. For both of them, “my way” is whatever way leads them to our way. Whoever they’re sitting with is family.
