
Our cookie policy has changed. Review our cookies policy for more details and to change your cookie preference.

By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.

MUCH of Serbia, Bosnia and eastern Croatia are under water. Flood maps marking the affected areas make it look as though a vast inland sea has suddenly appeared across the region. Tens of thousands of people have been evacuated. In Serbia some 300,000 do not have access to clean water or electricity. One third of Bosnia, an area that is home to 1.2m people, has been affected by the floods. So far the number of dead in Serbia and Bosnia is believed to be just under 50, a toll likely to rise.

A power plant in Obrenovac, in Serbia, that supplies electricity to Belgrade and a large part of the rest of the country, is at risk. In Bosnia, there have been fears that some 120,000 mines left over from the war, but whose location is generally known, could now shift. Landslides are hampering the work of rescue teams.

In only a few days around three months' worth of rain has fallen, so even the most prepared of countries would have been in trouble. So far emergency systems in Serbia and Croatia appear to have worked relatively well, but less so in Bosnia. Help is coming from across the region, the rest of Europe and Russia as well as Israel and Turkey.

According to Daniel Sunter, a security analyst in Belgrade, the reaction of the military and police has been good but hampered by a lack of equipment. The Serbian military have only eight transport helicopters, six of which date from the Tito era. Tens of thousands of ordinary people are volunteering to help across the region, to build barriers, to shelter those who have been flooded out of their homes and to collect aid. “I have never seen anything like this before,” said Mr Sunter. In Obrenovac, asylum seekers, from countries such as Syria, who tend to be much maligned, have been helping the rescue effort.

The trauma of the floods has triggered a wave of solidarity across the former Yugoslavia. Croatian and Slovene military helicopters are flying rescue missions in Bosnia. Croatian police are helping rescue the stranded in Obrenovac and a Slovene civil defence emergency team is helping pump water from the power plant there. Soldiers from Montenegro and Macedonia have also been sent to help and money and aid is being collected in both countries. Help has been offered by the Kosovo authorities too but so far it has not been accepted.

Although the water has begun to recede in some areas there are fears of more surges coming down the Sava, a river which marks the border of Croatia and Bosnia and flows into the Danube. Further down the down Danube, between Romania and Bulgaria, which have only suffered minor floods so far, surges are expected between May 22nd and 23rd.

For now everyone is concentrated on saving lives. But soon questions will be asked whether Bosnia’s dysfunctional state has left the rescue operation fragmented.  “Volunteers have been organising themselves, some reporting to the fire brigade and other working independently,” says Dusica Ikic-Cook, a business administrator from Tuzla in north-east Bosnia. In Serbia people will want to know why the authorities did not realise sooner the danger of the situation in Obrenovac. A few hours after people were told to stay at home it became clear that they would have to be evacuated.

The Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church and another senior churchman have used the floods to attack the country’s lesbian and gay community as well as Conchita Wurst, the bearded Austrian drag queen who won the Eurovison song contest on May 10th. They claim that the floods were a punishment from God for their vices.

Reader comments are listed below. Comments are currently closed and new comments are no longer being accepted.

The impression that I got in the last few days about media not providing enough coverage for the catastrophic event in Balkans was somewhat shaken when I saw recent articles in main newspapers/magazines, especially the article in The Economist.

This, however, lasted only until I read the closing paragraph of the article as, firstly, I found it absolutely unnecessary and with no particular purpose and, secondly, I feared that it will divert the attention from the main questions rightfully raised in other parts of the text. The number of readers' comments on what patriarch said or not, sadly, proves this to be true).

In this time of need, there are more important issues that need tackling and reducing The Economist to ending the articles on a major disaster in this way leaves a bitter taste after reading.

These nations have "longed" for eachother for centuries. Hatred was artificially instilled in them by the end of 19th century using paid shills in hands of powerful empires like Austrian, Russian and Turkish who all had their own agendas in the region.

There is no natural reason for Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats to hate eachother, they're facets of same people. The only reason why hatered is there is attrocities they commited on eachother during two world wars and recent balkan war.. all but the last provenly caused by outside influences, and the latter being highly suspect of same scenario.

Before that, during centuries of balkan's history, these peoples were torn apart in different empires but always seeking reunion.

"The Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church and another senior churchman have used the floods to attack the country’s lesbian and gay community as well as Conchita Wurst, the bearded Austrian drag queen who won the Eurovison song contest on May 10th. They claim that the floods were a punishment from God for their vices."

And people wonder why more and more educated Europeans are turning away from religion.

The response is restoring my faith in humanity.

If the Balkans nations that have hated each other for centuries can help each other out selflessly in a tight spot, anybody can.

It is easy to take a swig at a nationality / religious institution who is often ill portrayed in the media.

I just did a cursory Google of the Serbian Orthodox church, went on their official website among other sources and the only site which supported your claim was a random blogger.

Shamefull Shamefull Shamefull.

Please help only through OFFICIAL channels, e.g. Red Cross and government accounts. It's good to be cautious, as there have been a couple of people trying to make a personal gain in these hard times.

I am an undergraduate in math, soon to be graduate, and i am highly religious. You can not imply that educated people should turn their back on religion. In Saudi Arabia, you get a death punishment for being gay. But nobody in western media points fingers at them. (This only cause of them being USA allies, and very, very rich.) I have nothing against gay people, it is just a deviation of human nature. But i have everything against making them idols and role models, solely for their deviation. Nobody should ever really have an idol, and there are lots of predisposition one should meet to be a good role model. Among others, morality, a word with different meaning in different part of the world. Ideas are like viruses, and western idea of morality threatens to eradicate entire cultures. Should I teach my kid, wow, he is so cool, he is gay, and he is a hero just because of that?! Stop trying to change us, we are not a lower race, because we are religious or conservative, and you are not a higher race because you spread the lgbt idea.

I would never take any right from anyone, that includes lgbt. But i do not give away my right to criticize some of them, and this does not mean discriminate all of them.

There is whole this process in media, in my country, promoting this lgbt idea. And i have a gay friend, who lived for four years as my first neighbor, not once he got molested, or even made fun of.

Then this propaganda happened. And when you force something, you get a reaction.

We are blackmailed by EU to keep this process going and change. (Just for the record, in the midst of a flooding, a group of lgbt people in Belgrade sent a request to police to secure them whilst they make a party. That required 20 officers to stop saving endangered people and go secure them, while they party!) Point is that you are trying to make lgbt a special, protected, above everyone else kind of people. What Conchita said after winning Eurovision supports my claim. He or she obviously feels it is necessary to spread his idea on sexuality, and make new generation of transsexual kids.(This is basically how ideas spread and why they are like viruses) And ofcourse, there are people that disagree and fight against it.

There are many to die for ideas in the world. Religions, communism, socialism, capitalism, lgbt, freedom. Your idea is just different than ours, not better.

Shamefull Shamefull Shamefull.

THE MIDEAST, Africa, Australia, California and Texas are in record biblical drought and would have loved the Serbian rain.

Answer:  A Cloud.

Some areas get too much water, others too much sun and heat,

others too much wind, others not enough cold.

Global Warming can be seen as mis-distribution of cloud cover and rain.

In America, while the Midwest and South bake => The West Coast, Alaska and Pacific Northwest are having record rainfall and a cooler summer.

The problem of the India drought in 2012 is 200 miles.

The Monsoon rains came and dumped record amounts of precipitation--but over the Indian Ocean.

Redistribute the clouds, precipitation and cold fronts to areas of heat waves and drought.

Fewer scientists study clouds and rain-making than study wine grape breeding and wine tasting.

Moving a Cloud is easier than moving a Continent.

Ask a 5 year old how it may be accomplished: airplanes with giant fan propellers, Giant dirigibles with screens, electromagnetic fields, Land based windmills, Aero walls on land to contour wind, controlled explosions, cloud seeding, or Border Collies in Bi-Planes.

Avoid flooding, eradicate droughts, cool or warn city weather, and green plants.

Imagine moving the Serbian Rain to the parched North Africa, Subsaharan Africa, or the Mideast.

Prevent flooding.  Irrigate the deserts.

I see an opportunity for Man to control weather, cure droughts, mitigate temperature extremes,  optimize agriculture, make climate more stable, and save the earth.

MOVE CLOUDS: AVERT DROUGHT. CONTROL CLIMATE. SAVE THE PLANET.

You should be upset at the retrograde leaders of the Serbian Orthodox Church for saying what they say instead of the media for reporting what they say.

I must also state that while i did not offend anybody, i got named backwards and a bigot and ashamed. No solid arguments were given why. I had apogized if i was misinformed about activists, but yet i should be ashamed of  selectively portraying the truth. Writnig this from my phone, and really, do not have the time to keep this going. This will be my last say on the matter.

I hope you won't take this personally -- in these times, I find it very risky to transfer the donations to the private paypal accounts.

I see that you provided the links to the Red Cross and for the government accounts, but that donation to the private account seems really sketchy to me, especially when there are official PayPal accounts available, as you already mentioned.

You can not understand that morality is different in some parts of the world. To you activism is not a big deal, but western ideas keep wiping out cultures. And activism is one of them. Do you not wish to preserve different cultures, or should there be only one idea of morality and all others fail in comparison? Freddie Mercurry is a role model as far as music is concerned. And that is perfectly fine by me. I love his music. But did he ever used music to promote the fact he is gay? And did Conchita earned the right to be a role model even after she used the Eurovision to promote activism, no matter the countereffects in some countries? Know, i have no more time, because i need to go volunteer, and help people. I would like to hear activists are helping us with floods, but it seems to me they only look for themselves. Not one donation from them yet, that I heard of. My apologies if i am mistaken.

No you are backwards and a bigot. You think they don't have the right to be made into role models and idols? I could say the same about religious leaders and symbols, and yet you have the right to do that. So unless you want to ban religious propaganda (basically any form of public preaching) as well as ANY other form of promoting ANYTHING (political parties) then you have no legal/ethical right to ban gay activism. As long as you are trying to be fair of course.

I must add that it is scandalous to allow and not sanction  on one side of the world people to die for being gay, and on the other play a protector of them. This just contributes to my opinion that ideas are widely used as a fight for someone interests.

Nothing is shameful, you can't make this stuff up.
