
Friends have helped her raise more than $8,000 so far.

Friends of a female  adult film star in California have come to her rescue raising thousands of dollars with an online fundraiser after a her first attempt a raising money was axed by a rival site.

Eden Alexander's friends have raised more than $8,000 to help pay for her care after she posted an email sent to her Friday by WePay saying her fundraising effort had been cancelled. She previously disclosed she had a deadly infection and no money to pay for doctors.

Alexander tweeted earlier this month that she was suffering from septic poisoning that caused her heart and lungs to fail. She also said doctors refused to treat her because of her profession, and that it led to her condition rapidly deteriorating.

WePay told her it cancelled the fundraiser because it's terms of service prohibited anything of 'a pornographic nature,' according to the email she received.

The payment processor also told her that all money received, just north of $1,100, would not be given to her.

WePay has since reversed it's decision and allowed Alexander to raise money to pay bills she was previously unable to because sex workers do not have health insurance.

'Upon further review, WePay suspects Eden may not have been aware of the terms of service and we are offering her the ability to open a new campaign for further fundraising,' the site said in a statement emailed to MailOnline.

A new fundraiser set up on CrowdTilt by friend Kitty Fisher has raised almost $9,000 from more than 230 contributors in only one day - the target was $5,000.

The fundraiser claims that Alexander is suffering from a skin infection, MRSA, and an infection-caused instance of hypothyroidism called myxedema coma - the trio of ailments nearly killed her.

The initial denial of her efforts to raise the life-saving funds caused outrage among sex workers and their fans, with people taking to social media and accusing the site of 'w***e shaming' and discrimination, among other things.

Alexander herself fell into a pit of despair as she could not keep from drowning in medical bills.

‘I’m sorry. Nobody taught me the things I need to be a good person. I’ve tried so hard to teach myself. I give up,’ she tweeted Saturday afternoon.

‘WePay’s  terms state you that you will not accept payments  of use the Service  in connection with pornographic items,’ read the letter.

Her collection had accrued more than $1,100 in donations at the time it was shut down.

Alexander  said in earlier tweets she is suffering from septic poisoning, which  has caused her heart and other organs to intermittently fail. She claims  she has been on her death bed suffering for three weeks with no nurse  to care for her.

Many  fans had rallied round and donated to her cause, but WePay dropped the  ax on her collection despite her specifically saying it was not for  pornographic purposes.

The  hours since posting that tweet have seen spiral into a pit of despair  listening to songs about breaking up and longing for another person on  Pandora before the last song picked was 'I Got Ways Like the Devil,' by  Blue Lu Parker.

Alexander claims that she fell into pornography because she grew up desperately poor and it was her only way out.

‘He  used to tease me [because] I'd coupon & stockpile food. Well, he's  never been poor before. I bought all this ramen, [because] of [people]  like you, she wrote of her now departed boyfriend.

The  desperate woman even says, at one point, that she'll film as many group  sex scenes as she needs to in order earn the money to pay her bills.

‘I  had to buy food for our dogs, with the money I had left. I always put  you, them, us, first. never me. My golden heart... it's broken,’ she  tweeted before posting a Marie Antoinette quote.

‘I wanna be forgotten, & I don't wanna be reminded, [you] said please don’t make this harder, no I won’t,’ she lamented.

She lamented not being able to brush her hair or shave her legs correctly.

‘Welp I just stood up off the toilet, lost my balance and fell face first into the tile wall in front of me,’ she lamented.

She expressed grave sadness over not having a better relations with her parents.

‘Desperation  does funny things to your mind. Like how your try and call your mom for  some solace and she says she's too busy and hangs up,’ the fetish  actress wrote.

People donated the money help ease the burden of her medical bills. Not a lot, but every little bit would have helped.

‘[I  don’t know] why the world has to be cruel. Why I can't ever even just  survive. Obviously I'm not human to these people. Going away for a while  now,’ she said.

‘Nobody  cares if I dies. Nobody cares if I survive. I'm not even human,’ she  cried out. ‘I want my Daddy so bad, I'm so miserable and heartbroken.

Several people have sided with Alexander in her cause.

‘Disgusting  that WePay won’t release [Alexander’s] money to pay for medical bills  because she has worked as a sex worker,’ wrote Mitchell Sunderland.

‘It’s flat out discrimination,’ wrote another.

Things took a turn for the worse Saturday afternoon.

‘I'm  so sorry guys. I've tried so hard all these years to speak the truth  and I've done nothing but fail and disappoint you. I've failed,’ she  tweeted.

‘I've  nothing left, nowhere to go, Every time I plead for help I just get  hurt more. I can't live like this. I'm so sorry. Let you [all] down.

There will be life for Alexander. What else the future holds for her remains unclear.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
