
In a statement on the Humanitarian Pledging Conference for South Sudan website , humanitarian partners said at least seven million South Sudanese – representing more than of the population,  have been affected by the six month conflict.

Norwegian minister of foreign affairs Borge Brende and Valerie Amos, the United Nations Under-Secretary General for Humanitarian affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, will chair the conference on South Sudan in Oslo on Tuesday.

South Sudan’s minister of foreign affairs Barnaba Marial Benjamin represents Juba will represent the ruling SPLM. International as well as South Sudanese non-governmental organisations and representatives of various governments will participate in the one day conference.

The armed oppositions led by former vice president Riek Machar, as well as civil society groups will also sent delegates to Olso for the conference.

"The gravity of the situation in South Sudan, and the impact on the neighbouring countries, calls for immediate action," a joint statement signed by the Norwegian foreign minister Borge and UN Humanitarian chief Valeria Amos said on Sunday.

Humanitarian partners estimate four million people will "face alarming food insecurity by end of December 2014."

Over one million people have been displaced and thousands killed in the conflict which began as a dispute within the ruling SPLM but quickly caused a major split in the military. Much of the fighting being along ethnic lines and some of which constitute war crimes according to the United Nations.

Due to the unprecedented amount of racist and offensive language on the site, Sudan Tribune tries to vet all comments on the site.

Kind regards,

The Sudan Tribune editorial team.

This is what the power hungry Riek Machar want.He j want to be call leader good enough is a leader of Nuer alone since this rebelion has been nueriszed.

You guys are hopeless case, being united with Sudan didn’t solve your problem separating yourself from Sudan and creating your own state didn’t solve your problem either and may be made it even worse than being united with north!

You’re the problem, you’re the enemy of yourself and you will continue to kill yourself as ugly as hell!

July 2011 = Freedom! South Sudan Oyee!

I hope things will get better in south sudan. whether we were 1 or 2, the fact remains that the people of south sudan have always been suffering. looking at the potential in both Sudan’s, no person holding the name ’’Sudanese’’ whether north or south should be suffering or poor.

The following ads are provided by Google. SudanTribune has no authority on it.
