
With all of the bad press regarding the Veterans Administration hospitals, I must say that the San Diego Veterans Administration Hospital in La Jolla provides superb care.

As a retired hospital administrator and a 100 percent service connected disabled Vietnam veteran who receives all of my medical care at the VA in La Jolla, the public should be aware that this medical center and clinics are staffed by the most courteous, thoughtful and caring staff and physicians that I have ever witnessed.

Simply put, the care and services are beyond reproach. We are fortunate to have these facilities and individuals available to veterans living in our area.

My experience with the San Diego VA: If you have serious problems (cancer, etc.), the care is very good. But if you have normal problems due to age, your care is questionable.

The biggest problem for me has been the number of doctors. If I see the same doctor more than twice, I am really surprised. Every time I see a new doctor, I end up spending most of my session explaining where my care is at.

The people, including doctors have been polite and caring. The doctors have so many patients, so little time and so many rules to play by, they move on to more and better jobs.

Turning 65 and required to enlist in Medicare has made the situation worst.

Since the editorial page is supposed to be for opinions, it shouldn’t surprise me that the U-T editorial claiming this year’s candidates should in effect all get with the new norm that says to win they must position themselves as conservative on fiscal matters but liberal on social issues.

This goes on even while those of us who are now older but wiser thought we knew best as “young voters” not knowing that liberal social policies actually are the biggest “drag” on the economy.

While the mainstream media have worked overtime since the not yet forgotten historic economic boom Ronald Reagan “gave” us by combining economic conservatism with social conservatism, we are still expected to sit down and shut up so that “enlightened” candidates who would overtax, overspend and legally keep future younger generations from ever even being born and embracing “alternative lifestyles,” while taking aim at the older generations as useless eaters is the ultimate way to a better future for America — I don’t agree.

The yardstick by which Obama’s critics measure the success or failure of this policies needs recalibrating. His critics seemingly ignore his goals and the degree to which he has achieved them.

Obama believes in more government. The facts, as measured by outcomes, say Obama had been successful. The Affordable Care Act has given government control over one-sixth of the economy. Some 87 million people now work in the U.S. while 147 million depend on government handouts. The economy has barely expanded for five and a half years. The labor participation rate is at a 30-year low. Obama pushes redistributive policies in lieu of economic growth. Viewed through the Obama prism, the policies have succeeded.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
