
Demand jumped 8,000 Mw to touch 136,000 Mw. While it soared to 45,242 Mw in northern India, it touched 40,510 Mw in western and 33,048 Mw in southern India.

Govt extended the interim excise-duty concessions until December, giving much-needed relief and raised hopes of a positive turnaround in the next few months.

Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

MUMBAI: Manipal Health Enterprises (MHE) is eyeing control of Mumbai-based Balabhai Nanavati Hospital marking the South-based healthcare chain's entry into India's financial capital, people involved with the transaction said.

Manipal plans to acquire the management rights of the 350-bed Nanavati Hospital in Vile Parle for over Rs 400 crore. The payout will cover Nanavati's existing debt, working capital, expansion plans and voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for some of its 1,400 staff.

Bangalore-headquartered billionaire Ranjan Pai led-Manipal has been on the prowl for acquisitions to expand its geographical footprint in India and overseas. Last year, it acquired a 72-bed hospital in Kuala Lumpur, and snapped up a 280-bed hospital in Jaipur in February.

The owners of Nanavati had mandated investment bank Equirus Capital to explore strategic options last year. Manipal emerged as the frontrunner, pipping other suitors, including the IPO-bound Aster DM Healthcare. Last year, HealthCare Global Enterprises, backed by PremjiInvest and Temasek, had invested Rs 100 crore in a similar deal with Nanavati specifically for cancer care.

MHE's chairman Swaminathan Dhandapani said the company was looking at multiple opportunities for inorganic growth but he would not comment on speculation. Repeated calls to the office of Nanavati Hospital's chairman Priyam Jhaveri's office and an emailed query met with no response. When contacted, its chief operating officer Dr Ashok Hatolkar said he cannot comment on matters pertaining to owners and trustees of the hospital.

The latest acquisition will be structured differently since the 65-year-old Nanavati Hospital is run by a trust. There will be no exchange of shares and the deal will involve a long-term management takeover, a source cited earlier said, declining to divulge details since talks are still private.

Post the transaction, which is expected to close in a fortnight, the hospital will have a joint branding, a source close to the matter told TOI. Manipal's takeover of Nanavati is indicative of the trend of corporate healthcare groups making investments in hospitals run by trusts. In 2009, Fortis Healthcare took management control of Mumbai-based S L Raheja Hospital.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Manipal Health Enterprises is eyeing control of Mumbai-based Balabhai Nanavati Hospital.&#160;
