
Bali was once again touched by an incident of Australian travelers behaving badly on international flights.

On April 25, 2014, 28-year-old Australian Matt Christopher Lockley caused a security scare when he tried to gain access to the cockpit on a Virgin Australia flight from Brisbane to Bali.

Less than a month later, Bali experience another in-flight scares requiring the emergency diversion to Bali of a Scoot Air flight bound for Singapore. The security detail at Bali’s airport again went on alert on Wednesday, May 14, 2014 when the Sydney to Singapore Scoot flight TZ001 was diverted to Bali due to a domestic altercation among two passengers,

Metrobali.com, quoting the head of the communications and legal department at Ngurah Rai Airport, Shively Sanssouci, confirmed the unscheduled emergency landing took place at 4:46 pm with the plane departing again for Singapore at 7:32 pm.

The flight diversion was caused by an physical fight between a couple, believed to be a husband and wife, on board the flight in which the Australian man reportedly tried to injure himself and his wife suffered a suspected broken arm.

Shively would not confirm to the press if the man and woman were fighting on the flight, but did confirm the flight crew determined the couple represented a threat to the flight’s safety and that the women's injuries needed urgent medical care.

The pilot contacted the Denpasar Airport tower reporting he had two sick passengers on board and requested permission for an emergency landing.  The two passengers were brought to the BIMC Hospital after they were disembarked from the airplane.

The airport was earlier informed that two passengers were running amuck on the flight.

A third male passenger, believed to be intoxicated, became agitated and aggressive towards the flight crew saying heunhappy at the flight’s diversion to Bali. A decision was made to disembark the angry passenger who was put on a Singapore Airline flight departing at 8:00 pm.

Receive the latest    news from Bali by email!
