
AN author who has a debilitating illness is celebrating the publication of her second novel.

Karen Bridge, who writes under the pen name Caroline Ward, has written two books despite suffering from extreme fatigue, pain and muscle weakness, as well as arthritis of the spine.

Following the release of A Promise For My Mother, she wrote A Broken Heart which will be launched at Breightmet Library, Breightmet Fold Lane, on Saturday, June 3, with proceeds going to Bolton Hospice .

Her first book charted her traumatic life, dealing with tragedy, bullying, grief and finding happiness despite the debilitating illness, and her follow-up, A Broken Heart, tells of the emotions behind the story.

The 49-year-old, who lives just outside Bolton town centre and worked at Royal Bolton Hospital for 19 years as an auxiliary nurse, said: “Although it was a labour with ever-increasing fatigue, it was good that I could remember my life and, with the help of my husband Tom who typed it out, I managed to finish the book and received a publishing contract.

The author believes the traumatic events of her life, including an upbringing filled with sadness and lack of parental guidance, contributed to her illness and writing the books has helped lay rest the ghosts of her past.

She said: “Having been a very active person who was always dashing around, helping others as an auxiliary nurse, going out shopping and socialising, ME has rendered me unable to walk more than a few steps, unable to cook, do housework or ordinary tasks.

“Also, noise and strong smells can affect me and I will often need silence from the TV.

Mr Bridge said: “'It is heartbreaking to see how ME has changed Caroline as a person and we have had to adjust our life together.

The launch of A Broken Heart published by Chiado, takes place from from 1pm to 6pm at Breightmet Library.

No test for ME. It is disputed it even exists, if I thought I had ME I would live an health lifestyle to ensure it did not make things worse. This women clearly decided to write a book eating cake.

Well, I would guess that this gentleman doesn't read anything about world health! The World Health Organisation categorises ME as a neurological illness. It is a debilitating condition in which a virus attacks the central nervous system and immune system. I suggest, sir, that you read up first and then imagine that you are in my position - I am this lady's husband and I know what she goes through and she is no faker! You need to read up or shut up!

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
