
The EstroGene Test, a breakthrough saliva test that uses genetics to detect how the body processes estrogen and helps identify who is at higher risk for sporadic breast cancer, is now widely available in South Florida. The test determines whether estrogen metabolism genetic mutations are present. The EstroGene test is unique because it is available both by physician and direct to consumers and offers strong support to physicians and patients. Identifying genetic risk allows women to improve their estrogen health and take steps that may reduce cancer risk or recurrence.

The EstroGene Test is simple to administer. It only requires a simple mouth swab. After the swab is taken, the sample goes to a lab for analysis. Results are provided either by the physician who recommended or ordered the test or during a phone call with one of the Estrogen Gene Test Co.’s healthcare practitioners.

Women with three or more mutations on these genes are at 2.5 to 13 times greater breast cancer risk than women without mutations. The EstroGene test is especially critical for women who have ingested higher doses of estrogen during the course of hormone replacement therapy, natural hormones, in vitro fertilization, and even birth control pills. This also may help women with or who have had breast cancer, control future risk. While breast cancer is hereditary in some women, up to 80% have no family history and the only key to prevention is a genetic test. The EstroGene test provides a specific action plan to improve estrogen health.

A woman’s body naturally metabolizes the estrogen it creates and, in most cases, estrogen introduced into the body. However, certain women with estrogen metabolism genetic mutations are unable to process estrogen properly. The excess estrogen remains in the body and may become carcinogenic. This is true even for menopausal women with very low estradiol or estrone levels.

Dr. Skellchock has a personal connection to the test. Not only does she recommend it to patients, she has taken the test herself to determine her own risk factors.

EstroGene Test’s Chief Scientific Officer has been following a group of 175 women for up to 10 years; all of the women have mutations on at least 3 estrogen metabolism genes. 37 of the women have estrogen positive breast cancer and most of the rest have had significant estrogen medications exposure. They are following the protocols suggested in the EstroGene Test and to date there have been no new breast cancers and no recurrences.
