
CANNES, France: Canadian auteur David Cronenberg presented a director’s take on a Hollywood infected by taboo sex and backstabbing, plus a few ghosts, Sunday. Tommy Lee Jones, meanwhile, turned the Western around for a perilous eastward trek with madwomen at Cannes.

Jones’ “The Homesman” and Cronenberg’s “Maps to the Stars” screened the same day that Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Mel Gibson, Harrison Ford and other cast members from “The Expendables 3” rode in tanks in the Mediterranean seaside town, lending star power to the festival.

Cronenberg’s look behind the tinsel of Hollywood was the second competition film shown on the fifth day of the 12-day festival, giving it a heavily North American flavor.

A critic for a major trade publication, who did not want to be quoted by name before a review appeared in print, said Cronenberg’s film was “very disappointing and very uneven.” It stars “Twilight” idol Robert Pattinson as a Hollywood wannabe working as a chauffeur and Mia Wasikowska as a schizophrenic.

“The Hollywood Reporter” called Jones’ film “an absorbing, melancholy look at the hard lot of women in the Old West.” It stars Jones and two-time Oscar winner Hilary Swank as a team escorting the madwomen.

Of the main competition films shown, Turkish director Nuri Bilge Ceylan’s “Winter Sleep” and British director Mike Leigh’s “Mr. Turner” are tied with the highest rankings – according to Screen International’s compilation of critics’ opinions.

Written by Los Angeles writer and actor Bruce Wagner, “Maps to the Stars” features a cast of twisted characters. They include a child actor recovering from a drug habit, his schizophrenic sister, their ambitious parents who have a dark secret, and a has-been actress who is desperate to recreate a role played by her mother, who died in a fire.

Ghosts of the actor’s mother, a drowned child and a girl who died in hospital shortly after a visit from the child actor give the film a supernatural patina, suggesting that Hollywood is not just a city of dreams but of nightmares.

The people playing the Indians were “all native Americans, they were all of Pueblo descent,” Jones said. Even the costumes they wore were thoroughly researched to help them look like the hostile Pawnees they portray in the movie.

What is unusual is the stark portrayal of the extreme hardships faced by young women trying to survive, raise families and cope with extreme weather and disease. One of the madwomen had three babies die of diphtheria.

Swank plays Mary Bee Cuddy, an unmarried woman whose farm is successful but who cannot find a husband and agrees to lead the wagon trip to take the madwomen east with Jones. She said the role showed how resourceful frontier women had to be.

The Cannes film Festival ends May 24.

A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Daily Star on May 20, 2014, on page 16.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Canadian auteur David Cronenberg presented a director's take on a Hollywood infected by taboo sex and backstabbing, plus a few ghosts, Sunday. Tommy Lee Jones, meanwhile, turned the Western around for a perilous eastward trek with madwomen at Cannes.

Jones' "The Homesman" and Cronenberg's "Maps to the Stars" screened the same day that Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Mel Gibson, Harrison Ford and other cast members from "The Expendables 3" rode in tanks in the Mediterranean seaside town, lending star power to the festival.

Cronenberg's look behind the tinsel of Hollywood was the second competition film shown on the fifth day of the 12-day festival, giving it a heavily North American flavor.

It stars "Twilight" idol Robert Pattinson as a Hollywood wannabe working as a chauffeur and Mia Wasikowska as a schizophrenic.
