
Bosnia is witnessing 'the biggest exodus'  since the 1990s war after the worst floods in a century inundated  huge swathes of the Balkans, killing at least 47 people.

Muddy waters from the Sava River have submerged houses,  churches, mosques and roads in Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia after  record rainfall last week wreaked havoc across the region.

There were fears that dead bodies and animal carcasses could  lead to disease outbreaks, while officials warned that 120,000  unexploded mines from the conflicts of the 1990s could be  dislodged.

'More than 100,000 people' have been evacuated from Bosnia  alone, said Stanko Sliskovic of Bosnia's emergency services, with  tens of thousands more displaced in neighbouring countries.

'This is the biggest exodus since the end of the 1992-1995 war,'  he said.

Dozens of towns and villages have been cut off and more than  2000 landslides already reported, with water levels expected to  continue rising in the coming days.

'This is Armageddon, I can't describe it otherwise,' said  Nedeljko Brankovic from Krupanj, a town in the southwestern town of  Serbia.

'Houses are literally washed away and landslides are  everywhere.'

Bosnian Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdzija said more than a  quarter of the country's population of 3.8 million 'has been  affected by the floods' after the heaviest rainfalls on record  began last week.

'Right now, more than one million people have no water,' he  said.

In Serbia, some 600,000 of its 7.2 million inhabitants were  affected with 'severe floods following the heaviest rains the  Balkans have witnessed in 120 years,' the UN's World Food Program  said in a statement on Monday.

'The damage caused by these floods is comparable to the damage  caused during the war,' it said.

The death toll from the floods rose to 47 on Monday after two  new victims were found overnight in a village near the western  Serbian town of Sabac.

Neighbouring Croatia has also evacuated hundreds of people from  along the river Sava.
