
Welcome!

For the most part energy companies performed well in the first quarter despite bad weather across much of the world. I say for the most part because three energy stocks disappointed their investors in the quarter. Kodiak Oil & Gas (NYSE: KOG     )   blamed rough weather in North Dakota for its big earnings miss in the opening three months of 2014, while Chevron (NYSE: CVX     )  had weather problems of its own in Kazakhstan . Then there was National Oilwell Varco (NYSE: NOV     ) , which didn't have any weather problems, but was still affected by a storm in the offshore rig market.

All three companies' stock values dropped in the wake of their respective earnings reports. Investors sold off these stocks due to worries that the problems hinted at in the first quarter were indicative of deeper issues below the surface. It's a legitimate concern.

However, I think investors in only one of three stocks need worry. To help investors see why that's so, I've created the presentation below that looks at the most recent quarters of Kodiak Oil & Gas, Chevron, and National Oilwell Varco to uncover what's worrisome and what's not.

While investors worried about this stock's quarter OPEC is worried about it's game-changing technology. You can learn more in an exclusive, brand-new Motley Fool report where we reveal the company we're calling OPEC's Worst Nightmare . Just click HERE to uncover the name of this industry-leading stock.

Matt DiLallo has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Chevron and National Oilwell Varco. The Motley Fool owns shares of National Oilwell Varco. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

I realize you get paid for every article that you get published, but what a BS piece re KOG given your simplistic analysis.

Kog is the "one to watch" out of these three, eh?  Here's a $100 bet that KOG will outperform the other two between now and year end (and my guess is it wont even be close).

KOG is indeed disappointing, and your article puts this disappointment in perspective.    My last worthless options expire worthless next month.   I would never recommend this company; there is something wrong there, and they continue to either miss earnings by a lot or just scrape by.   I was making excuses for them until this last big miss but no more.   Let them kog on.

@brooks1988 - Simplistic or not, of all the companies I looked at this past quarter KOG was the one that I was most disappointed with. No one else that I noticed had the whole year thrown off by the bad winter. Every other company plans to make it up. So, is there something deeper going on at KOG? Seems like the one to watch to me.

Add your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
