
Vedanta Resources PLC's Zambia unit is being investigated by the country's tax authority for possible tax evasion and false accounting, the Zambia Revenue Authority said Monday.

The probe comes days after Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal was quoted as saying the company has been making profit of at least $500 million a year from the unit in the past nine years.

Mr. Agarwal remarks sparked public outrage in Zambia, coming less than six months after the London-listed oil and metals producer said it was undergoing serious operational challenges, sparked by spiraling production costs.

"It is prudent for Zambia Revenue Authority to check whether this statement is at variance with profit declared and if need be make tax adjustments with possible resultant penalties and interest," ZRA said.

The probe comes against a backdrop of strained relations between the miner and the government. In November last year Zambia threatened to revoke Vedanta's mining license after the company announced plans to lay off more than 1,500 workers at KCM to cut operational costs. The company has since shelved the plan.

Mr. Agarwal told a business forum in India a few weeks ago that despite buying the mine property for only $25 million from the Zambian government in 2004, it has earned the company "a minimum of $500 million every year."

Activists have since urged Zambia to immediately scrap tax incentives and other favors for Vedanta.

Vedanta said it has invested at least $2.9 billion in KCM since 2004 and that the company is on course to more than triple annual copper ore output in the country in the next couple of years.

Vedanta said on Monday that Mr. Agarwal's comments were being used "negatively" by activists.

Vedanta spokesman Roma Balwani said Mr. Agarwal made the remarks as he "spoke engagingly about the human side of running a multinational mining business,"

"In his speech, Mr. Agarwal decided not to mention that since the acquisition nearly all the returns from KCM have been reinvested back into KCM," Mr. Balwani said.

Zambian Vice President Guy Scott said on national television Sunday that the government would do everything possible to ensure that KCM accounts for "what it has not paid to the Zambian government in taxes."

In February, Mr. Scott told the country's national assembly that Vedanta was trying to pressure the government into assuming liabilities of more than $1.5 billion that it owed to commercial banks and to local and international suppliers, citing operational challenges.

Mr. Scott accused the miner of "hiding" information from the government related to mineral exports, imported inputs, production volumes and books of accounts. Vedanta denied the accusations.

Vedanta is embroiled in a separate legal dispute with ZRA over a $560 million tax charge on its copper exports. ZRA levied the tax charge on the miner last year after a tax audit of the company's mineral exports.

Research group Global Financial Integrity said in a report last week that at least five fast-growing African economies lost more than $1.5 billion in tax revenue over the last decade to companies surreptitiously moving profit abroad.

Until 2013, Zambia was Africa's largest copper miner by output but has since lost its top position to Congo.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
