
The 5th instalment of the ASEAN M&E Show will open its doors from 10-12 June, at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre. The event will showcase the latest technologies and product developments in the rapidly growing M&E market and offer businesses and professionals access to explore new markets.

A total of 15,000 attendees and over 350 trade exhibitors from 25 countries are expected at this year's show. Exhibitors represent countries like Germany, Korea, China and Singapore and solution leaders like York, Schneider Electric, Heataway Ltd, Acson and Bitzer.

Eliane van Doorn, Business Development Director of United Business Media (UBM) Malaysia, organiser of the ASEAN M&E Show, said, "We have seen a market increase in trade exhibitors and visitors in past years, which reflects the impact that ASEAN M&E has on the region's M&E industry.

Again, as the only M&E show that features four power-packed events, the Tenaga Expo & Forum, Green Energy Asia 2014, REVAC'14 and Lift Asia'14, this special combination is for investors and industry players to have in-depth discussions and explore new business opportunities with local and overseas service and product owners."

In 2012, over 12,000 trade visitors from 22 countries/regions including Singapore, mainland China, Korea, India, Indonesia, Thailand and Taiwan, generated USD7.1 million in business from the show.

"Schneider Electric is the global specialist in energy management. We help individuals and organizations make the most of the energy. Again we are in Green Energy 2014. Please visit us at our booth to discover the strategy, the available technologies and implementation to drive a sustainable and profitable business," said Mr Mok Kam Meng, Senior Manager, Energy & Sustainability Services, Schneider Electric Industries (M) Sdn Bhd.

Highlights of the show will include the ASEAN M&E Forums co-hosted with the Institution of Engineers Malaysia (IEM), ASHRAE Conference, Tenaga & Green Energy Asia Technology Symposium and Refrigeration, Ventilation & Air-Conditioning Technology Symposium.

ASEAN M&E Show is organised in collaboration with Energy, Green Technology and Water (KeTTHA), and endorsed by the Malaysia External Trade Development Corporation (MATRADE) and Ministry of International of International Trade and Industry.

It is supported by the IEM, MCMA, ASHREA, MARCA, TEEAM. The event is organised by United Business Media (M) Sdn Bhd.

For more information, please visit www.aseanmne.com .
