
MOSCOW —  Russia said yesterday it had ordered troops near the border with Ukraine to return to their bases, just days ahead of a presidential vote aimed at bringing the country out of deep crisis.

The move could ease tensions, but both Washington and Nato — which noted it was the third time Moscow had made such a claim — said they saw no sign of a withdrawal.

“Unfortunately, we have not seen any evidence at all that Russia has started withdrawal,” Nato chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen said.

A senior US official said Washington will want to see “clear, firm evidence of this move before we make any judgement”.

President Vladimir Putin’s office said he had ordered thousands of troops deployed in border regions to return to barracks after the end of spring exercises.

But the Kremlin said Putin had also demanded that Ukraine’s pro-Western government halt what it described as a “punitive operation” against insurgents in the east and withdraw its troops.

His remarks came amid continued fighting in eastern Ukraine, with at least one soldier reported killed in an attack near the flashpoint rebel town of Slavyansk.

“Due to the end of the planned spring training of troops that included their movement to Rostov, Belgorod, and Bryansk regions, the Russian president ordered… troops participating in the drills to return to their permanent bases,” the Kremlin said in a statement.

The presence of the Russian troops near the border raised deep concerns after Putin’s annexation of Crimea in March and the uprising by well-armed pro-Moscow rebels in Ukraine’s eastern coal and steel heartland.

Nato estimates the number of Russian troops near the border at 40,000 and Rasmussen said yesterday that a real withdrawal would be an “important contribution to de-escalating the crisis”.

Putin said earlier this month that the troops had been moved away from the border to regional bases to continue planned training exercises. Nato at the time also said it had seen no evidence of a withdrawal.

Kiev also called on Moscow yesterday to cancel air force drills planned for May 21-25 near the border, saying they will “fuel tensions” during Sunday’s election.

War.

After initially dismissing Sunday’s presidential vote — called after February’s ouster of Kremlin-backed president Viktor Yanukovych — Putin later said it was a step in the right direction.

Many in the West see the vote as the only way to end a crisis that began with pro-EU protests in Kiev but spiralled into a wider confrontation that some fear could break Ukraine apart.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
