
YEREVAN, MAY 19, ARMENPRESS.  Senior representatives from the Russian Union of Journalists, Independent Media Trade Union of Ukraine, and the National Union of the Journalists of Ukraine met in Vienna today to discuss ways to improve journalists’ professional standards and safety in Ukraine. Armenpress reports that the unions met under the auspices of the OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media.

Representative Dunja Mijatović opened the meeting by highlighting the need for journalists also to show solidarity and publicly condemn all attacks on members of the media.

“I am reacting to attacks on media in Ukraine almost every day. Since November my office has noted almost 300 cases of attacks, including physical assaults, kidnappings, threats and damage and confiscation of equipment. Law enforcement authorities have completely failed to protect the journalists and none of these attacks were ever investigated. This is simply unacceptable,” Mijatović said.

“We demand that the authorities and armed people do not view journalists as participants in the conflict. We are on the side of the truth, on the side of our profession, on the side of our audience. We are sure that consultations among the organizations of Ukraine and Russia contribute to our solidarity and strengthen the possibility of assisting our colleagues,” said Sergey Tomilenko, Acting Chairman of the National Union of Journalists of Ukraine.

At the conclusion of the meeting the participants signed a memorandum on practical steps to improve the safety of journalists and also called for the governments to stop manipulating the media and engaging in propaganda. Representatives of the European Federation of Journalists, the International Press Institute and Reporters without Borders also participated in the meeting.

Later Monday Mijatović briefed an informal meeting of OSCE participating States on the media freedom situation in Ukraine.

The Ukrainian Armenians donated blood in the Ukrainian Defense Ministry hospital.

The copyright for information published on this web site is owned exclusively by Armenpress news agency.  All information materials published on this website are intended solely for personal use.

For full or partial reproduction of any material in other media it is required to acquire written permission from Armenpress news agency. Those, who have committed copyright violations, will be prosecuted accordingly.

Website administration is not responsible neither for opinions expressed on the website, nor for the content of the advertisements and of the external links.
