
Indonesia and Malaysia are close neighbors, they share the same  linguistic, cultural and historical roots, however, distrust has always  marred these relations.

Answer: This is a legacy of the past. The fact we had the confrontation with Malaysia (1963-1966) is still vivid in our minds.

In additon, the memory of the dispute over Sipadan and Ligitan continues to linger. [The dispute was brought before the International Court of Justice and on Dec. 17, 2002 the ICJ ruled that Sipadan and Ligitan belonged to Malaysia].

The two countries have other problems too, such as maritime boundaries and disputes over the Ambalat block.

These may be the hurdles in our relationship, but we’re hoping these problems can be resolved bilaterally, realizing we are from the same roots.

The uneasiness [in our relationship] should be lessened by intense interactions between our leaderships and between our societies. Indonesia should see the positive side of Malaysia and Malaysia to do the same toward Indonesia.

The most essential thing is for leaders and institutions in the two countries to always pursue better ties, not always for the sake of the bilateral relationship but also in ASEAN’s interest.

A closer relationship between Indonesia and Malaysia is needed within the framework of ASEAN. It is important that we move forward together.

If a tense situation emerges, then we must establish the cause and resolve it in the right manner, work through any dispute and find a win-win solution.

In education, the ties have been very good. Around 12,000 Indonesian students study in Malaysia and 6,000 Malaysians study in Indonesia — this indicates people-to-people relations are going well. This helps forge better understanding between our peoples. We’re hopeful this kind of second track diplomacy will work even better in the future. It is essential in our relationship.

In the economic sector, we still have a trade deficit with Malaysia. Malaysian investments are greater in Indonesia than Indonesia’s in Malaysia.

Our commodities such as tea, coffee and other delicacies are marketable although they are not so big compared to the oil and gas sector.

We face tight competition since Malaysia produces the same commodities as we do. It’s different than Germany and South Korea, which export [automotive and electronic goods], things that are not produced in Malaysia.

We are helping businesspeople to meet to brainstorm what kind of business opportunities should be developed to attain that target.

In 2013, our trade volume reached $19.5 billion. Beside that we also organized a trade exhibition.

The culinary and restaurant business can be a challenging opportunity for Indonesian investment in Malaysia.

There are some Indonesian specialties that have not been explored but that will have potential in the Malaysian market.

Malaysians visiting Indonesia always look for Padang restaurants. We can explore this food or Bebek Bengil [duck specialties from Bali] restaurants.

The tourist sector also has great opportunities.

Bandung is getting more popular as a new tourist destination for Malaysians. This should be continuously promoted and better accommodation should be developed so that they feel comfortable and more Malaysian tourists go there.

This could apply to other cities as well.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
