
European Court of Auditors (ECA) said that the European Commission should apply lessons learnt from its development of Schengen Info System to avoid similar delays and overspending on future IT projects.

On 19 May, the Court of Auditors published a report which states that the Commission delivered the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) over six years later than initially planned and at eight times the initial budget estimate. The delays and overspending occurred due to weaknesses in the Commission’s management in a challenging governance context.

The initial indicative estimates of the costs to the EU budget for the central system significantly underestimated the true scale of the investment necessary. The full cost of SIS II amounted to € 189 million for the central system to which should be added an estimate of over € 330 million for national systems. At the same time, the main benefit initially expected from SIS II became less relevant with the successful extension of SIS 1 to new member countries. In the light of these major changes to the costs and expected benefits, the Commission did not demonstrate that SIS II fully provided the best value for money for the organisation.

However, the Commission did learn lessons from its experience during the first part of the project, enabling it to change its approach during the final project phase from 2010 and deliver SIS II in April 2013. In addition, it has already applied some lessons from SIS II in preparing other large-scale IT projects.

This special report (No 3/2014) entitled “Lessons from the European Commission’s development of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II)”, examined why the Commission delivered SIS II over six years later than planned and at a cost far exceeding the initial estimates. It also examined whether there was a robust business case for SIS II throughout the project, which took into account major changes to the costs and expected benefits. In addition, the EU auditors assessed whether the Commission had learnt and applied lessons from its management of the project.

The EU auditors found that the delay and overspend resulted from deficiencies in the Commission’s management in a challenging governance context, particularly during the first part of the project up until 2009. Despite major changes to the costs and expected benefits during the project, the Commission did not reassess the business case in order to demonstrate that SIS II remained an organisational priority which provided a higher return on investment than other opportunities. There was no decision, based on a reassessment of costs and benefits, on whether to continue with, or stop, the project. The Commission learnt lessons from its experience during the first part of the project in order to change its approach during the final project phase from 2010 and to deliver SIS II in April 2013.

i) base the timetable on a technical analysis of the tasks to be performed;

ii) ensure that all projects are integrated into corporate IT governance arrangements and make full use of in-house expertise to manage the work of contractors effectively;

iii) ensure that business needs and the views of end users are sufficiently taken into account in decision-making;

iv) ensure the approval of the business case before progressing from project initiation to project planning and its reapproval in the event of major changes to project costs, expected benefits, risks or alternatives;

v) ensure that key project decisions are documented in a decision log so that they are easily traceable;

vi) ensure that there is effective global coordination when a project requires the development of different but dependent systems by different stakeholders;

viii) pass on the lessons learnt from the Court’s audit to DGs and EU institutions, agencies and other bodies. The Commission should evaluate whether the expected benefits of SIS II were achieved.

*This page automatically updates when new content is added to New Europe.
