
DR Sally Irvine, chairman of Colchester Hospitals Trust, is to step down later this year.

The trust, which runs Colchester General Hospital and Essex County Hospital, was placed in special measures last November following allegations staff had been bullied into changing patient records to hide missed cancer targets.

Dr Irvine, who has been chairman since August 2010, said now was the right time to announce plans to leave.

“Late last year our Trust was placed into special measures, partly because of governance breaches relating to cancer services. Since then the Trust board has been working hard to develop and implement a number of action plans designed to ensure that every one of our patients receives good quality care.

“An assurance review conducted by NHS England earlier this year indicated that the Trust is making progress against these action plans.

"It recognised that there have been a number of improvements, particularly that members of staff are more confident and engaged compared with a year ago, and that patients and visitors the NHS England review team spoke to were very complimentary about the care and treatment they received.

“Much remains to be done and we cannot be complacent about the size of the task ahead but I feel that with help, we have identified the issues to be addressed and we have turned the corner.

"This is therefore the right time for me to make this announcement."

What another one falling on their sword?  Rats & sinking ships spring to mind.

What another one falling on their sword?  Rats &amp; sinking ships spring to mind.

This person and others should never be given places on trusts ever again.

Far too many amatuers pretending to be professionals in the whole organisation, these poor quality amatuers are sadly letting the true professionals down to the point very few want to take up positions in the hospital hence recruitment has to take place on a worldwide basis.

Far too many amatuers pretending to be professionals in the whole organisation, these poor quality amatuers are sadly letting the true professionals down to the point very few want to take up positions in the hospital hence recruitment has to take place on a worldwide basis.

I just do get not get this at all it really baffles me.

It is the same going on in another trust the Chair of the board of Laughs  has come from another 7 year quango too hot to carry on with, only this time "The Fixer" as they have known them has landed a role bang in the middle of an enquiry. That is clearly a case Of Out Of The Frying Pan & Into The Fire. They rely on the fact, to the point of you lot that is, us don't know anything. Once again denying everything in a plausible way, very much like Obama denying the existence of Groom Lake, Nellis Air Force Base & Area 51.

I have sat on committees like these before and its all battered cups & saucers of tea & coffee and talk of no substance.

If we had a say in the vote, things would be different, but its jobs for the boys & girls in this case. Lions led by donkeys comes to mind, no matter what their accreditation is, they seem blinkered to the realities of life. It is a carefree existence with a pay check at the end of it. The only thing I can add to this is, we don't get or enjoy a pay check, we pay with our lives.

In my opinion, each member of the "Hospital Trust" and the "Council of Governors" should spend at least 24 hours observing closely what the medical staff really have to cope with in the A&E Department.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
