
A Syrian boy with the Israeli doctors who saved his life. Photo: Pioter Fliter, RHCC.

It has become a mainstay to begin articles on the Syrian conflict by stating the current score of the dead and displaced. For the record, we are now more than three years and perhaps 200,000 dead into the Syrian conflict.

Approximately half of the Syrian population has become external or internal refugees, and no real end is in sight. The UN has done its best to address the carnage, and has achieved its usual nothing. Early calls for Western intervention to prevent the bloodbath that was already under way became less frequent after President Obama backed away from his red line about the use of chemical weapons.

The allies of the Syrian regime, Iran and Russia, must be pleased with how things are going. No-one has a clear idea about what might bring the conflict to an end, so fresh thinking is needed.

The      Alawite government understands that if it loses control, not only will it      lose its privileged position in Syria but its people will likely be      massacred. Alawites are questionably Muslim and regarded as heretics by      Sunnis, so if they lose control, their fate will be similar to that of      Christians in other Muslim countries. Iran backs the Alawites for its own      reasons.

The      secular opposition has lost control of the anti-Alawite forces and has      largely been side-lined.

The      most obviously problematic of these is the Iranian Shi’ites who back the      incumbent Alawite government. They believe that if they can cause enough      global chaos they can compel Allah to submit to their will and reveal the “hidden imam.”  This notion turns on its head Islam’s      central precept, that man’s obligation in this world is to submit to      Allah’s will; Allah does not submit to the will of Man, or a man, even if he is an ayatollah. The Iranian approach must be recognized as contrary to      Islam and should be rejected by all real Muslims, specifically including      Shi’ites.

The      Muslim Brotherhood was established in 1928 by Hassan al-Banna to reverse      the abolition of the caliphate four years earlier. Muslim Brothers need to      consider a single question:  Could such a profound change in the      structure of the Muslimummah as the abolition of its titular      head happen against Allah’s will? There are only two possibilities. If the      answer is “Yes,” then Allah doesn’t even control the structure      of Islam and cannot be all that powerful. This is not to mention that it      falsifies the most commonly appearing phrase in the Quran: “Allah is      able to do all things!” (Pickthall interpretation) which should      include maintaining His followers’ organizational structure.However,      once one rejects, “Yes,” the alternative, “No,” means      that Allah wanted the caliphate abolished – perhaps      because the age of jihad is over – so by seeking to reinstate it, the      Brotherhood is in fact in rebellion against Allah’s will.  The      Brotherhood is thus kufr. It is possible to add epicycles to      the Brotherhood’s ideas, that the abolition of the caliphate was a test of      Muslims’ willingness to sacrifice to re-establish it, but to make this      claim they would have to work from their desired outcome backwards, rather      than looking at reality as it presents itself. When al-Banna asserted that      this is what Allah wanted, he was presenting himself as a prophet, a clear      rejection of Islam’s belief that there can be no prophets after Muhammad.

The      third jihadi faction includes various Salafi groups. There are several      groups fighting one another as well as the other factions, so it is quite      clear that the issue isn’t doctrine. Their objective, to be attained by      use of more or less violence, is to return the Muslim world to the      glory days when the Prophet Muhammad walked the earth. It is easy to      understand why they regard this period as glorious. It is less easy,      possibly impossible, to see how they can reestablish the glory of that      moment without the Prophet’s presence. Clearly, to the extent that the      presence of the Prophet is what made that era so great, it is not possible      to return to it. Their goals are thus impossible to achieve by their own      standards or require them to denigrate the Prophet in ways well in excess      of what would produce rioting if a non-Muslim did something similar.

Syria is the first Muslim country to face this war of all against all, but it is unlikely to be the last. The Syrian war has always threatened to overflow into Iraq and Lebanon, where the same groups would fight one another. Egypt is being rocked by a three-way conflict involving a “secularist” faction, the Brotherhood, and various Salafi groups. Something similar is in the works in Libya and Yemen, and possibly Saudi Arabia. Do the peoples of these countries want what is happening in Syria to happen to them? If not, they have to join arms against the ideas of all three jihadi factions. Fathers must forbid their sons (and the occasional daughter) from joining the fighting. Imams must rise to the occasion and recognize that Allah doesn’t want what is happening in Syria, so it is their obligation to help stop it.

There is an even deeper question that must be addressed: It follows immediately from the existence of two sets of revelations, an earlier Meccan and a later Medinan one that Allah changes His mind. Might He have done so again, in 1924 or more recently? What would that mean for Muslims today? I leave that for a future article.

Please note: comments may be published in the Algemeiner print edition.
