
The owner of the 117,300-square-foot warehouse at 4242 B.F. Goodrich Blvd. in Oakhaven has filed a $1.1 million loan on the property.

Riveredge Co. Inc ., which lists a Bartlett address, filed the deed of trust April 16 through Peoples Bank of Clifton, Tenn.

James Warren Downing signed the trust deed as president of Riveredge.

Built in 1985, the Class B industrial facility sits on 5.4 acres near the intersection of B.F. Goodrich Boulevard and Pilot Drive. The Shelby County Assessor of Property’s 2013 appraisal was $1.4 million.

A three-day conference called Creative Works that unites Memphis and national designers, illustrators and other creative professionals, is launching in October.

It’s under the direction of Josh Horton, creative director for Hieroglyph in Memphis. It will include lectures, workshops and open vendor sales, and will be held Oct. 3-5 at the Visible Music College, 200 Madison Ave .

Conference partners include Hieroglyph, Loaded for Bear and AIGA Memphis. Regular admission is $200, and discounts for students are available.

Early-bird admission, until Aug. 1, is $150. Only 175 spots are available.

The Community Foundation of Greater Memphis will host five pre-application sessions to explain guidelines for its upcoming Nonprofit Capacity Building grant funding round.

Nonprofit Capacity Building grants are allocated to strong, established nonprofit organizations that are working to become more effective by improving operations and increasing efficiency. In 2013-2014, 15 nonprofit groups were awarded a total of $188,500 in the Nonprofit Capacity Building grant round.

Typically, grants range from $5,500 to $40,000 and generally require the recipient to raise matching funds. Grants are decided by a committee of community volunteers.

Nonprofit organizations in West Tennessee, northwestern Mississippi and eastern Arkansas are eligible to apply. Registration and attendance at a pre-application information session are mandatory for organizations that have not attended a session within the past two years. The workshops will be at the Community Foundation, 1900 Union Ave ., on June 10, June 26 and July 10 at 8:30 a.m.; and on June 25 and July 1 at 3:30 p.m.

Visit cfgm.org to register for a session.

RedRover Sales and Marketing has picked up five 2014 Communicator Awards from the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts.

The firm won three Awards of Excellence for The Jones Clinic website, the MED Gala invitation design and the MED Gala invitation special event promotion. The firm also won two Awards of Distinction for DreamCatcher Hotels’ business-to-business brochure and The Jones Clinic integrated rebranding campaign.

The Communicator Awards is the largest program honoring creative excellence for communications professionals, with more than 6,000 entries from across the U.S. and around the world.

Prime Urgent Medical Clinic, located in Cordova, has a new name: MedPost Urgent Care.

The center becomes part of a new and growing national network of urgent care centers launched by Tenet Healthcare, the parent company of Saint Francis Hospital. The MedPost network currently consists of 23 urgent care centers in eight states.

MedPost Urgent Care walk-in centers are open seven days a week with extended hours. The centers also provide follow-up care and specialty referrals when needed. They are staffed with physician specialists in primary care, internal medicine and emergency medicine, as well as nurse practitioners and other health professionals. The facilities are equipped with X-ray and laboratory capabilities and provide a comprehensive array of services ranging from flu shots and other immunizations to treatment for such things as upper respiratory infections, sinus problems, allergic reactions, fever, ear aches and orthopedic injuries.

Currently, MedPost Urgent Care centers are located in Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri, Tennessee and Texas. Most were operating under different names prior to being rebranded as MedPost. The goal is to double the number of MedPost facilities by the end of 2014.

Congressional candidate Ricky E. Wilkins touted the endorsement Monday, May 19, of a group of 30 ministers in his challenge of U.S. Rep. Steve Cohen in the Aug. 7 Democratic primary for the 9th Congressional District.

The group of ministers includes Church of God In Christ Bishop Brandon Porter and First Baptist Church-Broad pastor Keith Norman , who is a former Shelby County Democratic Party chairman.

Records from the Tennessee Ethics Commission show lobbyists spent a record amount last year and could spend even more this year.

The Knoxville News Sentinel reports the 2013 total was $650,873. The amount was released last week in the commission's annual report.

That amount compares to $568,637 so far in 2014, according to figures on the panel's website.

Most expenditures came during the legislative session, which ended on April 17, but reports for several events that occurred late in the session haven't been filed. Lobbyists also usually host multiple events later in the year.

The total in the first few months of 2014 is already more than the $565,318 that lobbyists spent in 2012.

Tennessee Common Cause Chairman Dick Williams said several factors likely have contributed to the increase, including more out-of-state groups wining and dining lawmakers.

Williams said there might also have been a decline right after a 2006 law that took effect limiting how much lobbyists can spend on lawmakers at such events and mandating that reports be filed on each one.

"Maybe we're getting a more accurate picture of what was going on before," Williams told the newspaper.

"I won't say they're buying influence, but they're certainly buying access to legislators to make their case," he said. "They obviously feel it's worth the money. The bottom line is it helps their bottom line."

A hospital in West Memphis facing $30 million in debt is asking voters to approve a 1 percent sales tax to prevent the facility from closing.

According to the Arkansas Democrat Gazette, an increase in uninsured patients, cutbacks in federal programs such as Medicaid and doctors relocating or retiring have left Crittenden Regional Hospital in West Memphis facing $30 million in debt.

Hospital administrators are asking for help in the form of a sales tax. Crittenden County voters will cast ballots on a 1 percent sales tax on June 24 that, if approved, would be collected for five years and generate about $30 million before ending in 2019.

Crittenden Regional Hospital Chief Executive Officer Gene Cashman says the medical facility would likely close if the measure fails.
