
Dominique Strauss-Kahn to file suit over a US movie inspired by scandal that brought down the former IMF chief.

Dominique Strauss-Kahn is to file suit for defamation over a US movie inspired by the scandal that brought down the former IMF chief, his lawyer said Monday.

Speaking on Europe 1 radio, Strauss-Kahn's lawyer Jean Veil said his client would in the coming days "file suit for defamation over the accusations of rape and the insinuations made all throughout the movie".

He said Strauss-Kahn has been cleared of all charges in the case, and was "sickened and frightened by this film," which premiered at the Cannes film festival on Saturday.

Veil described the film as "a piece of ****", and echoed a charge by Strauss-Kahn's ex-wife Anne Sinclair that aspects of it were "anti-Semitic".

Asked about the controversy, Ferrara told AFP he is not anti-Semitic. "I hope not. I was brought up by Jewish women," he said.

In the film, Devereauxs's wife Simone is a rich woman who inherited a fortune amassed during World War II and helps the Israeli state financially.

Writing in the French version of the Huffington Post, which she edits, Sinclair said she was "disgusted with the so-called face-to-face between the two main characters, on which the authors and producers of the film project their fantasies about money and Jews."

"The allusions to my family during the war are completely degrading and defamatory. They say the opposite of what happened," she said.

"My grandfather (famous art dealer Paul Rosenberg) had to escape from the Nazis and was stripped of his French nationality by the Vichy government," she added, referring to the wartime French regime that collaborated with the Germans.

"My father... fought until the liberation. To say otherwise is slander."

Sinclair said she would not resort to legal action over what she described as "dirt".

Ferrara, meanwhile, denied having sullied the memory of Sinclair's father.

"He was not a collaborator. He was almost killed by the Gestapo. He was completely the opposite. He was very nearly killed like six million Jews."
