
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

MCCALLA, Alabama -- Standing beside his grandmother's bed, tears welled up in Jordan Mason's eyes as McAdory High School principal Tod Humphries read a speech he had not planned to give for another two weeks.

Cathy Mason raised her grandson and in her final hours she was able to see him do something few in their family had done. Jordan was graduating high school.

"Good boy," she said in a voice that was barely a whisper.

"I knew this was going to be the best thing I'll ever see," Jordan Mason said.

Cathy Mason was diagnosed with a rare form of liver cancer on March 12. "With that type of cancer, you usually don't find out you have it until it's very advanced," said her daughter, Memory Lowery.

Chemotherapy was not a viable treatment option, so on April 8 the 61-year-old underwent surgery at UAB Hospital. Doctors removed the softball sized tumor and two-thirds of her liver.

Mason spent some time in intensive care before being transferred to a room, but complications arose and she was sent back to ICU. Doctors performed another surgery.

She soon developed an infection her body struggled to fight because of the loss of liver tissue. "Her body started shutting down," her daughter said. Mason was kept sedated to improve her odds.

"That was one of the hardest parts, because I knew her wishes but you just start questioning yourself," Lowery said. "I prayed God would let her wake up so I could tell her I love her and she could tell me I was doing what she wanted."

Mason eventually did awake and on Tuesday May 13 she said she wanted to go home. Her family and physicians asked if she knew that would mean. She said she did.

As they made preparations to take her home, Jordan Mason's teachers were devising a plan to have Jordan graduate on May 22 so his grandmother could be there. The official graduation is slated for May 29.

"I told them if at all possible we needed to move it up because I didn't know if she would be there or if we could get her out of bed," Lowery said. Teachers planned to move the graduation to Thursday May 15. It was soon clear even Thursday might be too late.

Early on the morning of Wednesday May 14, Mason called out to her husband, Johnny, Lowery recalled. "She said, 'Give me a kiss,' and he said, 'Of course.' We just had several precious little moments like that," Lowery said.

Later that morning, her breathing changed and they called the hospice nurse and Mason's close friends. The nurse said she did not expect Mason to live until Friday May 16.

Jordan's teachers said they would find a way for him to graduate that same day. Lowery texted Jordan that day at noon and told him to come over with a white shirt. Jordan thought they just wanted him there for pictures.

When he arrived, his friends and teachers and principals from McAdory were waiting there in graduation robes. "He saw them and started crying," Lowery said.

Standing by her bedside, Humphries and vice-principal Brent Shaw gave him his diploma. Shaw said he has known Cathy Mason for nine years and saw she and her grandson shared a common trait.

"She was always kind and tried to help people in the community. Jordan is the same way," Shaw said. "I credit the teachers for making this happen. It was an easy decision from an administrative standpoint. You want to be able to bless someone like Ms. Mason."

Hours after the ceremony, Lowery told her mother she loved her and that it was OK to let go. "When I said that, she took her last breath. It was peaceful," Lowery said.

Jordan Mason now plans to be a firefighter.

"They are role models. World changers," Jordan said of the McAdory faculty. "I didn't know that many people there cared. They showed me that day that they do."

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
