
Fodor's may use your e-mail address to send you relevant information on site updates, account changes, and offers. For more information about your privacy and protection, please review our full Privacy Policy .

Thank you!

I personally did not see any beaches in Croatia that were not either big rocks or round stones/ pebbles, but I certainly did not see all the beaches.

We went swimming in Dubrovnik, diving off the rock ledges, around October 10 and were quite comfortable.

Personally i think that you can't go to Greece to spend just 3-4 days on an island.

You would have to pay the very expensive plane ticket with Croatia Airlines to Athens, and a second one from Athens to an island.

That would also be quite time consuming depending on the departure/arrival times, you might lose a whole day just to get to a Greek island.

Greece ( both the Mainland and the Greek islands) has a coastline of 15.000 Jilometres and there are thousand of sandy beaches, which i understand are pretty rare in Croatia.

Well, in general, many gorgeous beaches in that area will not be sandy. That however, does not prevent you, as a beach person, from being able to enjoy it. Unless you really want to build sandcastles, traveling with little kids, etc., I think a pebbly beach can be just a nice, if not nicer (e.g., no sand blowing and sticking to you).  I get it.  I grew up in So. Cal and only knew sandy beaches. But I think you can still enjoy your time in Croatia.

We were with our kids a few summers ago near Split and though there was no sandy beach to speak of, we all had a great time.  We were also in Hvar about 10 years ago.  I still have a smooth stone that I picked up as my souvenir, to remind me of the gorgeous beach there.

Regarding rocky beaches, actually there are almost no rocky beaches in Croatia. People like to go to the rocky parts of the coast, because you can find your spot easier there and avoid the crowds during the summer. However, it's hard to call that a beach and the "real beaches" usually have pebbles. That doesn't stop you from enjoying it, actually it has some advantages, i. e. not getting muddy, water remains cristal clear even if many people are swimming around you etc. Most of the pebble beaches are perfectly comfortable to lie on them, especially if you put a mat under the towel.

Another advantage of visiting Croatia in that period of year is that the high-season is mostly over and you'll avoid the crowds.

Regarding the weather, average max temperature in that area at that time is 23-25 C, with sea temperature at 22-23 C. That should be fine, but Greece might be somewhat warmer, depending on where you'd go.
