
In United States v. Esquenazi , the 11th Circuit (one level down from The U.S. Supreme Court) just issued a decision that is critical for understanding company and individual risks under the FCPA and is especially critical for companies doing business with China.  Specifically, in Esquenazi, the 11th Circuit defined foreign government “instrumentalities” for purposes of the FCPA. Companies subject to the FCPA will want to fully understand this court decision and which foreign entities are “instrumentalities” because payments to such entities could result in FCPA violations as well as corresponding civil and criminal penalties. The Esquenazi decision marks the first time a U.S. appellate court has addressed the issue of who is a foreign government official under the FCPA. It also upheld the longest prison sentence (15 years) for an FCPA violation.

whether the public and the government of that foreign country generally perceive the entity to be performing a governmental function.

The 11th Circuit addressed alleged bribes paid by Joel Esquenazi and Carlos Rodriguez, owners of Terra Telecommunications Corp. (“Terra”), to Telecommunications D’Haiti, S.A.M. (“Teleco”), a Haitian company.  Mr. Esquenazi and Mr. Rodriguez allegedly made payments to Teleco officials through various sham companies to obtain reductions in Terra’s bills to Teleco. Key to the allegations against Mr. Esquenazi and Mr. Rodriguez was determining whether Teleco was a foreign government “instrumentality” such that Teleco officials were government officials and thus the bribes were illegal under the FCPA.

entire media business, publishing, transportation of nearly all kinds, a lot of high tech companies, on and on.  when I see this stuff I can’t help but think that the U.S. has put American businessmen in an impossibly difficult position in China, as if their position was difficult already from the Chinese side (and getting worse).  I have to wonder why lobbyists, PACs, and defense contractors in the U.S. aren’t given similar off-limits status for American businessmen.  What’s the difference?  Is it only that it’s our own government?  I’m certainly not in favor of bribery, but if my understanding is correct this law prohibits the hiring of people with certain gov’t background for the purpose of gaining gov’t business.  Geez, that’s practically a job description for military officials in the U.S. who go to work for defense contractors.  Maybe I’m missing the point somehow.  Feel free to enlighten me.  It seems to me that either it’s OK for the U.S. to have its biggest trade relation with a state-controlled economy, or it’s not.  If it’s not, then for Pete’s sake our markets shouldn’t be thrown wide open to them.  If it is OK, then the law ought to be at least a little reflective of the realities of the choice that the U.S. gov’t has made to make it OK.

Many thanks for expanding the list.  The point is that for people who must obey the FCPA, many firms in China may well be instrumentalities, and it will not be at all obvious which ones are.  That said, the easier path is to simply conduct oneself as if all China business entities are instrumentalities and thus avoid FCPA consequences.

I overlooked utilities (water, gas, power, sewer, telecom and data com, etc.) in the list of instrumentalities in my other post.

Aside from that one pharma guy are there any other foreigners sitting in jail right now for bribery charges in China? Not skeptical, just curious.

Will be or has been? The GSK Executive is the only case I’ve heard of where a foreigner has been subject to prosecution for corruption in China.

That’s not to say that we can’t read the writing on the wall, but presently I have not seen any cases where foreigners have been prosecuted.

"...the widely respected China Law Blog"

"Clear and compelling"
