
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.

ONE OF THE  most influential figures in Malaysia's ruling party claims information about flight MH370 is being hidden and the Australian-led search for the plane off Western Australia is a waste of time and money.

Former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad said the plane's disappearance on March 8 was ''most likely not an ordinary crash after fuel was exhausted''.

''The plane is somewhere, maybe without MAS [Malaysia Airlines] markings,'' he said. ''It is a waste of time and money to look for debris or oil slick or to listen for pings from the black box.''

Dr Mahathir, 88, who was prime minister for 22 years from 1981, wrote in his personal blog he could not imagine that the ''the pilots made a soft landing in rough seas and then quietly went down with the aircraft''.

''Someone is hiding something. It is not fair that MAS and Malaysia should take the blame,'' he wrote.

Dr Mahathir suggested the United States' Central Intelligence Agency had knowledge of the disappearance of the plane with 239 people on board but was not sharing it with Malaysia.

He also claimed that Boeing, the plane's maker, and ''certain'' government agencies, have the ability to remotely take over control of commercial airliners such as the missing Boeing 777.

''For some reason, the media will not print anything that involves Boeing or the CIA,'' he said.

In another blog last month, Dr Mahathir, who remains a power broker in the ruling United Malays National Organisation, questioned whether the plane crashed into the southern Indian Ocean and blamed Boeing for its disappearance.

During his time in power, Dr Mahathir was often critical of Western countries such as the US, even once suggesting the attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York were staged as an excuse to mount attacks on the Muslim world.

His comments on MH370 reflect deep suspicion in Malaysia of foreign involvement in the plane's disappearance despite Prime Minister Najib Razak saying last week that nobody knew what happened on board, or precisely where the plane was, more than two months after it disappeared.

Mr Najib said experts had identified that MH370 ended in the southern Indian Ocean, where the search was focused, discounting dozens of other theories and reported sightings.

But Dr Mahathir wrote in his latest blog that planes ''don't just disappear . . . certainly not these days, with all the powerful communications systems, radio and satellite tracking and filmless cameras which operate almost indefinitely, and possess huge storage capacities''.

''Can it not be that the pilots of MH370 lost control of their aircraft after someone directly or remotely activated the equipment for seizure of control of the aircraft?'' he wrote.

Meanwhile, relatives of the 12 crew members on the plane claim Malaysia Airlines abandoned them after discovering they had engaged US law firm Ribbeck Law Chartered for legal assistance.

Jacquita Gonzales, the wife of Patrick Gomez who was the in-flight supervisor on MH370, said the airline sent relatives an email last Friday advising that caregivers who had been assigned to help families had been terminated.

The airline earlier this month closed family assistance and accommodation centres in Beijing.

''From day one they [Malaysia Airlines] said that we are all family. 'Anything you want, just come to us, we will help you.' That's why caregivers were assigned to us,'' Ms Gonzales, 51, said.

''But to take away our caregivers, our lifeline to MAS, just like that . . . it's actually not right because our caregivers are not there to advise on legal matters.''

Ms Gonzales said the airline had told relatives to now engage with the airline through lawyers.

''As far as I am concerned, my husband is still an employee of MAS  . . . as far as I am concerned, my husband is still on MH370, a flight to Beijing and he has not come back from Beijing yet,'' she said.

Malaysia Airlines has not responded to the relatives' comments.

Meanwhile, two films inspired by MH370 are being touted to buyers at the Cannes Film Festival. A 90-minute teaser for Vanishing Act, showing terrified passengers and a gun being brandished, was shot over six days in India.

Two books have also been written on the mystery.

Want an avatar for your comments? Register with Gravatar .

Do not enter anything in this text box otherwise your message will not be sent!

Sounds ageist to me, dave.

Muslim anti west figures like him normally also come out with it was a Jewish, Zionist force behind this. Boeing can take control.....and to date no engineer any where in the world has discovered this capability. Men like this only create hatred out of a tragedy.

There are rapid figures in every religion, FF, even in the West. No point in singling out one religion or one type of radical.

Agreed Ed but to make statements like Boeing can take control of the plane....this guy is either well past his use date or is looking for his name in the press etc. Would anyone of any intelligence believe that with so many Boeing's sold to so many countries Boeing/US govt would do this? Frankly Ed I think there is more important news to print than this old man trying to stur hatred.

Hatred is at the core of many news reports every day, FF. No publisher has ever succeeded in reporting only the good news.

Ed, surprise, I almost agree with you re: your first reply to FF, however, I would have used "rabid" instead of "rapid."

If I'd had any choice in the matter, so would have I.

@Feisty farang...you obviously have no idea of what is able to be done,re; Boeing able to take control      A search on the Internet reveals that as far back as 2006 Boeing received a US patent for a system that, once activated, removes all control from pilots to automatically return a commercial airliner to a pre-determined landing location.  Thats just the tip of the iceberg,and 8 years ago already.

@ DwayneD suggest you start to look at some legal documents - when companies are spending in excess of $200m a plane, more in many cases what do you think "Boeing has the right at any time to take over your plane and fly such plane to where ever we want" come on you will be telling me pigs fly next. There is a great difference between technical innovations and legal/practical matters.

He's got the acronym wrong, NSA not CIA.  Feisty Farang,

All newer planes have anti hijacking software, and can be remotely controlled, it's no secret.

How do you think the Americans fly their drones? The Boeing 777 is a fly-by-wire aircraft, which means that all of the aeronautical functions of the plane are controlled through digital electronics, rather than hydraulic controls. Flight management systems and autopilot can be operated and controlled from the ground with the correct equipment. Airbus planes from the A319 upwards are also fly-by-wire and can be flown pilot-less by operators on the ground many thousands of miles away, the same way drones are flown. This is reality, not theory.

I am not debating that the technology is there, although only on your word. My point is a 777, A380 is not a US navy drone and there is no way it would be allowed to be installed on commercial aircraft. Anyway the only way to know the outcome of this debate will be when the cause is found of the Malaysian plane crash, if it is ever found.

The intent of the former PM of Malaysia is to divert attention away from Malaysia and Malaysian Airlines. The poor security, the inability to track one of its own airplanes, the inability to run a search & rescue operation, the lack of respect that other countries have shown for the Malaysian capabilities, the  questionable past behaviour of one of the pilots and the poor management of the crisis are all things the Malaysians want people to forget about.

The allegations that Boeing was able to take control of the airplane are idiotic. To back up the claim, a reference is made to a 2006 patent in respect to flight data information streaming. The plane was built in 2001 with a final delivery certification in 2002. What's next? A claim that Boeing went back in time to install the magical device?  Mahatir is always blaming the USA, UK and his personal bogey man the 'jew". He's a prejudiced ignorant man who has a history of seeking out non implicated parties to blame for the failures of Malaysia. He used to blame the ethnic Chinese for the incompetence of the Malaysia finance ministry. Nothing new here. He's just one nasty piece of work.

@Dwayne and Pete....by your analogy then the plane was hijacked remotely by the US...How ridiculous can you get...do you really think the US would do something like that? How do you think the whole world neither mind the G20 would look at that.

Wow. Tin hats are on a little early today and giving this nutjob the attention he craves. If the NSA, Boeing or the CIA wanted a plane there are easier, lower profile ways to get it than grabbing a plane full of people at random. Please think this through, ignore the hate-mongers, put the aluminum foil away and focus back on Elvis, Marilyn and JFK.

The American Government can't find rogue planes in their own air space they surely aren't controlling random ones in Asia. The costs of this and legal exposure would alone be prohibitive, also a dozen more rational reasons this discussion is ridiculous.

Martin,  Not just a plane of people, certain people, knowledgeable people working for Chinese high technology firms.

Wrong end of the horse stuff.

Chinese high tech companies who probably hacked and then copied US technology. Maybe the pirates were pirated!
