
A Wellington  nurse has been suspended for repeatedly accessing the medical records  of her ex-husband, his new partner and their wider families.

The nurse,  whose name was suppressed, was found guilty of professional misconduct  by the Health Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal in a decision released  over the weekend.

The tribunal  described the nurse's acts, which took place from 2006 to 2011, as a  ''gross breach of trust and of professional obligations''.

The woman, who at the time had recently  split from her husband, accessed the medical records of her ex-partner  and his new girlfriend from a work computer. She also looked at the  information of a number of people in the couple's extended family,  including the children of the new girlfriend.

The nurse  also accessed her own records and those of her family members, but she  submitted she had permission of the individuals to do so. Altogether,  she looked at the medical information of 36 patients who were not under  her care.

The new  girlfriend grew suspicious when the nurse spoke of information she  should not have known, about the living circumstances of the former's  child. Her concerns were raised with the DHB who discovered the extent  of the nurse's unapproved access, and dismissed her in April 2012.

The girlfriend told the tribunal she was a discreet and intensely private person, so felt humiliated by the nurse's actions.

The nurse said she was attempting to  find out the address her ex-husband was living at, and the records  provided names and clues to assist her in her search. She said her  actions were only to protect her children, who stayed with their father  on occasion.

She said she was ''incredibly unwell'' and suffered depression at the time, but knew what she was doing was wrong.

But the disciplinary panel was told  this explanation did not hold, as the nurse looked up information again  and again. The new girlfriend's records were accessed 50 times over an  almost two-year period.

It appeared  the nurse was seeking to find out as much as she could about her  husband's partner and her circumstances, the tribunal was told.

The tribunal suspended the nurse for five months and ordered her to undergo six months' supervision, at her own cost.

The  woman currently works in aged care, but sought to return to clinical  nursing. She was not fined, owing to her financial circumstances, but  was ordered to pay $20,000 of the costs of the tribunal hearing.

Yes - and I got out before my destination.

Yes, but it turned out fine.

No, never a problem.

No, but I'll never travel alone in one.
