
An aspiring model who was forced to abandon her career after developing a rare condition has finally achieved her dreams by landing a job as a disabled model.

Chelsey Jay, 23, was horrified when she was struck down with a condition known as Postural Tachycardia Syndrome (PoTS) which caused her to faint every time she stood up.

Chelsey, from Witham, Essex, suddenly became confined to a wheelchair, and was forced to quit her modelling dreams.

But in a remarkable change of fortune, she has managed to secure a contract with a disabled modelling company, and has gone on to model for big name brands such as online fashion store, Boohoo.

Chelsey said: 'When I was diagnosed with PoTS I thought my dreams were over.

'They campaign to get more diversity within the modeling industry, and before long they signed me up.

'Now, my life has completely changed - I’ve modelled for brands like Boohoo, and done the catwalk at lots of different events.

'I might not be able to walk the catwalk like the other girls do, but I give it my all in my wheelchair instead.

Lifestyle change: Chelsey, pictured before she was wheelchair bound, said: 'It was really hard at first. I'm always the loud, lively one that loves a laugh, but suddenly my life was different'

'Whenever I do a shoot I ask the photographer to tell me exactly what they want - and I’ll do everything I can to do it.

'I might not be able to stand up, but I can model just as well as anyone else.

'I thought I was going to have to give up on my dreams, but now I’m living them.'

Chelsey was struck down with PoTS during a busy shift on the stroke ward Broomfield Hospital in Chelmsford.

Chelsey said: 'I had a 15 hour shift ahead of me on the ward and I was just getting started.

Adaptable: Chelsey said: 'I might be different to other models but I never let my disability phase me. People think disabled people are incapable of certain things, but we just adapt'

'I was fine and then all of a sudden felt faint. I hadn’t had breakfast so I assumed it was that.

'I went to the staff room to grab something to eat, and when I came back out I fainted.

'Everyone ran towards me and the next thing I knew I’d been taken to A&E. Apparently I was unresponsive and people were really worried.

'It was really scary, I had no idea what was happening to me.'

Chelsey began a long process of referrals, tests and investigations before finally being diagnosed with the condition in October 2012.

She said: 'It was really hard at first. I’m always the loud, lively one that loves a laugh, but suddenly my life was different. I had a wheelchair and a mobility scooter and everything changed.'

But after speaking about her experiences online, she was spotted by Models Of Diversity.

Chelsey said: 'I met up with them and almost immediately I was doing a photo shoot for Boohoo.

'It was just such a whirlwind and now I’m constantly busy either modeling or campaigning.

'I might be different to other models but I never let my disability phase me. On shoots I’m always professional and try to do exactly what the photographer wants, people think disabled people are incapable of certain things, but we just adapt.

'I’ll lay down, or sit, and try lots of different poses - I’m not just a one trick pony. Doing catwalk in a wheelchair is daunting, but I just go for it.

'You’d think the reaction to a disabled model might be confusion or upset, but I only ever get positive reactions.

'The public are definitely ready to see disabled models in the fashion industry.'

Now, Chelsey’s career is going from strength to strength. Chelsey said: 'I can’t quite believe how busy I am at the moment and how exciting everything is.

'Not only do I get to model, but I’m also the ambassador for disabled models at Models of Diversity, so I head the campaign to get the industry to use disabled models too.

'I’ve even had a meeting with an MP who is going to raise the issue in parliament. It’s about time we saw a change in the type of girls that are used in the fashion industry - everyone needs to be represented.

Success story: A spokesperson for Models Of Diversity said: 'As soon as I met her I immediately saw her potential and I knew we were onto a winner'

'It’s crazy to think that just a year ago I thought my life was over. But thanks to Models Of Diversity, my amazing family, and my wonderful boyfriend Ashley, I couldn’t be happier.'

Angel Sinclair, CEO, of Model’s Of Diversity, said: “Chelsey is a remarkable young woman.

'She is an incredibly brave person and I know she is going to make it as a known model. She campaigns tirelessly for models of diversity and is so selfless, she’s done incredible things for us.

'As soon as I met her I immediately saw her potential and I knew we were onto a winner.

'She’s modelled for Boohoo, for bridal shows, and she’s even modelled for Velvet Amour - Jean-Paul Gaultier’s first plus sized model. She goes to castings and most likely will be the only disabled model there, but she is always amazing.

'I’m very proud of her, she’s amazing.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
