
After extensive and thoughtful research and planning, some of which began over five years ago along with talks of a new health care center, the Prairie du Chien Memorial Hospital board of directors unanimously agreed in December that it was time for a new brand. That brand was then kept a secret until Friday, when it was revealed to the staff during a picnic, and to the public during an afternoon press conference.

“The new brand represents the evolution of our organization and its commitment to meeting the changing health care needs of the communities we serve in southwest Wisconsin and northeast Iowa,” said Bill Sexton, chief executive officer of Crossing Rivers Health.

The rebrand process began in 2012 when Prairie du Chien Memorial leadership conducted a brand audit that included online surveys, external focus groups and internal focus groups. Based upon the results, hospital administrators and the board of directors determined a new brand identity would better represent the hospital’s more than 60 diversified services, geographic service area and philosophy.

The rebrand will be a gradual change that will first take effect at the new clinic location in Prairie du Chien, opening in July, and concluding with the opening of the new health center in the spring of 2015.

Each part of the new name has relevant meaning. “Crossing Rivers” both describes the health system’s location—at the confluence of the Mississippi River and the Wisconsin River—and its service to patients on both sides of the rivers in two states, Wisconsin and Iowa. According to Sexton, 40 percent of the organization’s patients come from Iowa.

By changing from “hospital” to a “health” center, the organization better describes the diverse array of services it provides today.

The new logo, with soothing colors of blue and green, features a bridge resembling the one that crosses the Mississippi River between Iowa and Wisconsin.

The new tagline, “Your bridge to wellness,” also emphasizes the wellness component of care. The Crossing Rivers staff of professionals and providers also serves as a bridge in a sense, providing personal connections to care with compassion and joy. With services that span the entire course of one’s life—from birth to end of life—Crossing Rivers bridges a complete continuum of care for the whole family.

The health system’s two new clinics—in Prairie du Chien and Fennimore—will be called Crossing Rivers Health Clinics.

As an independent, rural hospital ranked in the top 100 of all Critical Access Hospitals across the nation, Crossing Rivers Health’s primary mission and responsibility is to meet the health care and wellness needs of its community. The organization has been serving the area since 1957. It serves patients in five counties within a 40-mile radius of Prairie du Chien.
