
Share This Story!

Several hundred patients take part in experiment at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

BOSTON – For years, the woman went to a Boston hospital to talk to a therapist about being depressed and overweight. The therapist, listening closely, asked questions and jotted down notes on a memo pad.

Until recently, the 54-year-old woman didn't know what her therapist was writing. Then, last month, her therapist offered to share his notes with her regularly.

But when she read two pages of notes from two visits last month, she was pleasantly surprised by the level of detail. He wrote, for example, about how much she disliked using the treadmill. "He really is listening," she said.

Lori is among several hundred patients taking part in an experiment at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center that began March 1 and gives them electronic access to therapy notes written by their psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers. Beth Israel is the first private hospital system to do so, and the practice has set off a spirited debate among mental-health professionals and patients.

Supporters argue note-sharing provides many benefits. More transparency, they say, reduces the stigma and isolation of mental illness while boosting patients' self-image. They also say having patients read about their problems could empower them to change their behaviors in positive ways.

"Bringing transparency into mental health feels like entering a minefield, triggering clinicians' worst fears about sharing notes with patients," Michael Kahn, a psychiatrist at Beth Israel, wrote in an article in the Journal of the American Medical Association last month. Kahn is taking part in the pilot program.

"In principle, I'm all for it," said Jeffrey Lieberman, past president of the American Psychiatric Association. He said note-sharing was a way to handle mental illnesses that was like the approach to nonpsychiatric ailments.

But, he added: "The devil is in the details. How you manage complexities, that's where we are right now. They're in uncharted waters."

Beth Israel's pilot program grew out of a national initiative, called Open Notes, that the rest of the hospital started more than a year ago for outpatient medical – but not behavioral health – cases. Led by Tom Delbanco, founding chief of the division of general medicine and primary care at Beth Israel, and Jan Walker, a hospital nurse, the program is part of a growing movement to give patients full access to their medical records.

Patients can access the encryption-protected notes only through a secure portal and can read them on their home computers.

All 15 clinicians in the hospital's psychiatry department are participating. They have offered 10 percent of their patients – 350 people – access to their notes, according to Pam Peck, a psychiatrist who is managing the department's participation. Individual clinicians are selecting those patients they feel could safely read the notes at home.

On April 1, two dozen social workers at the hospital began offering notes to 360 of their patients.

Victims of domestic violence are excluded out of concern that their partners might see the notes.

Clinicians say they have been surprised by the feedback. Some patients have been eager to see the notes. Others are less interested because "it's not that big a deal," O'Neill said. One patient told his social worker, Deborah Judd, that his treatment was like taking his car in for repairs: He trusted the mechanic and did not want to look under the hood.
