
After three confirmed reports of MERS Virus cases in the US, the US Centers for Disease Control are now looking for ways to contain the virus. MERS Virus stands for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome. This virus was first identified in Saudi Arabia two years ago after finding some patients who fell ill of an outbreak of a new flu. Since then there were 173 cases of patients who died due to this infection.

The most recent case of this virus in the US came from a man in Illinois. He got the virus from a patient in Indiana who was infected with it in Saudi Arabia. According to him the virus was inflicted to him after shaking the man's hand. Apparently he was in a business meeting with that man for 30 to 40 minutes.

MERS Virus is known to be an airborne virus. It has the following symptoms: fever, cough, and shortness of breath. Individuals who have symptoms like this and who happens to have travelled from the Arabian Peninsula must immediately seek medical help before it causes severe outbreak. Everyone is urged to participate in preventing the spread of such virus by coming forward if they are experiencing the above symptoms also. Most of the virus' victims are actually being infected. Physicians who are familiar with the case expressed that symptoms would take up to 14 days before the virus would take effect. 20 percent of those patients are also reported to not having shown any symptoms at all.

© 2014 Traverlers Today, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

Qatar Airways flight QR23 has been escorted by military jets Tuesday after a man was accused of making a hoax bomb threat. Due to the ‘hoax’, concerns were raised about Qatar Airways flight QR23, reports The Daily Mail.

Puppy saves girl in Siberian forest may be hard to imagine, but this story did recently happen to a three-year-old who went missing for 11 days. The story of puppy saves girl in Siberian forest happened when the girl went missing inside the Siberian forest, and 11 days later, her dog was able to lead rescuers to her location.

Mom sues after 8 year old tased by police is a story which is currently causing major debates and concern this weekend. According to The Inquisitr, the story of mom sues after 8 year old tased by police began after a babysitter called 911, since the child grabbed a knife and obviously threatened to harm herself.

Rare whale fossil found Friday at about 9:30 a.m. was oddly, recovered by a 10-member search-and-rescue team typically dispatched for recovery operations. The rare whale fossil was recovered on a rock in Rancho Palos Verdes, 500 square miles along the Angeles Crest Highway.
