
UNITED NATIONS, May 19 (Xinhua) -- UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson on Monday voiced his "extreme concern" over a deadly weekend rebel attack on the city of Kidal in northern Mali, underling the importance of a political solution to the current crisis in the West African country.

Eliasson called Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita on Monday morning and "expressed his extreme concern at the recent violence over the weekend which included the killing of eight civilians in Kidal," UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said at a daily news briefing here.

"Mr. Eliasson said the United Nations condemned these atrocities," the spokesman said. "He also conveyed, on behalf of the secretary-general his sincere condolences to the aggrieved families and to the entire Malian people."

Separatist Tuareg rebels launched an assault on Kidal over the weekend, killing eight soldiers, storming government buildings and taking 30 hostages in what the government officials saw as a " declaration of war" on the Malian government, reports said.

The fighting began on Saturday morning and continued throughout the day, the reports said.

"Mr. Eliasson added that he understood that these recent attacks had unleashed a strong emotional reaction in large parts of the population," he said. "He appealed for calm and stressed the need to de-escalate tensions."

"The deputy secretary-general stressed the importance of following a political path to solve the current crisis in Mali," Dujarric said.

The UN Mission in Mali has condemned the attacks, calling them a gross violation of the Ouagadougou accord Mali's government and separatist groups signed after a French-led intervention drove the Islamists from major cities and towns last year.

Mali held a successful presidential vote in August 2013 to end a crisis unleashed by a military coup in March 2012.

Al-Qaida's branch in North Africa AQIM and other rebels had swept through northern Mali after the coup before being routed by French and African troops in January 2013. The West African country has restored control of its northern part, but is grappling with a situation where rebels are capable of sporadic attacks.
