
Support in the EU’s External Relations.

2. In the context of working towards a rights-based approach to development cooperation,

“aims at integrating human rights principles into EU operational activities for development, covering arrangements both at headquarters and in the field for the synchronisation of human rights and development cooperation activities.” The Council also notes that several Member States are already developing or applying similar approaches for the integration of human rights principles and standards in their development cooperation.

3. The Council underlines that respect for and protection and fulfilment of human rights is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development. A rights-based approach to development cooperation can significantly contribute to the realisation of human rights.

means for and a goal of effective development cooperation.

principles of inclusion and participation in decision-making processes; non-discrimination,

should be central to EU development cooperation, thereby also ensuring the empowerment of the poorest and most vulnerable, in particular of women and girls, which in turn contributes to poverty reduction efforts.

and instruments should be further pursued when implementing the rights-based approach.

of the rights-based approach.

rights, notably through their contribution to the empowerment of rights-holders,

implementation of a rights-based approach.

Framework, the EU will continue to encourage and contribute to the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.

to support the integration of human rights issues in EU policy formulation and advocacy on the global agenda. In particular, the Council underlines the EU’s commitment to ensure a rights-based approach encompassing all human rights in the post-2015 framework, in line with its Conclusions on an overarching post-2015 agenda.

the key role of EU Delegations, the Council notes the importance of adequate training of staff on the rights-based approach and on the use of the aforementioned Toolbox.

*This page automatically updates when new content is added to New Europe.
