
Acute care accounts for more than $370 billion, or 29 percent of annual healthcare costs1 in the U.S. As telehealth programs incorporating Philips technology continue to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes in critical care and in the home , hospitals are increasingly realizing the value and impact of telehealth across medical and surgical units.

"While eCareManager is a critical piece of our offering, delivering higher standards of care requires more than technology alone," said Derek Smith, CEO of Philips Hospital to Home. "Working with our customers, the insights we're able to derive from our patient-centric approach to telehealth result in vast improvements in outcomes and cost savings for hospitals and health systems alike."

"Continuous patient surveillance across the care continuum, partnered with Philips Hospital to Home tools and a telehealth team, can improve patient outcomes and reduce costs," said Julie Reisetter, RN, MS, Chief Nursing Officer, Banner Telehealth. "We're excited to see the results of our early collaboration with the Philips Hospital to Home team with the release of eCareManager 4.0."

St. Louis, MO-based Mercy also recently went live with the eAcute program . Its initial goals are to reduce readmissions and lengths of stay, while increasing patient safety and satisfaction.

"Telehealth is proving to be a powerful approach to providing our patients with the best possible care, and enabling our care teams the support necessary to make faster and more informed clinical decisions," said Wendy Deibert, RN, BSN, vice president, Mercy Telehealth Services. "Philips Hospital to Home has been a valued partner as we've rolled out these efforts from the ICU to the home, and now to our medical and surgical units."

Increased vital sign monitoring for higher risk patients and sophisticated clinical decision support to identify instability and facilitate earlier interventions;

Care transitions support to facilitate discharge.

Philips is spotlighting eCareManager 4.0 at its booth (#4610) at the American Telemedicine Association's 2014 Conference (ATA 14) being held this week in Baltimore, Md. For more information on the full suite of Philips clinical telehealth programs, visit www.hospitaltohome.philips.com and follow the #ATA2014 conversation @PhilipsHealth .

Royal Philips PHG, +1.15% (aex:PHIA) is a diversified health and well-being company, focused on improving people's lives through meaningful innovation in the areas of Healthcare, Consumer Lifestyle and Lighting. Headquartered in the Netherlands, Philips posted 2013 sales of EUR 23.3 billion and employs approximately 112,000 employees with sales and services in more than 100 countries. The company is a leader in cardiac care, acute care and home healthcare, energy efficient lighting solutions and new lighting applications, as well as male shaving and grooming and oral healthcare. News from Philips is located at www.philips.com/newscenter .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
