
DURHAM, NC--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) - DPx Holdings B.V. (DPX), a leading provider of custom manufacturing, technologies and development services to the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and agrochemical industries, recently donated a total of USD $110,000 to more than 20 different hospitals and organizations across the globe.

DPx Holdings B.V. was formed earlier this year as a result of a merger between Patheon and DSM Pharmaceutical Products. The company is comprised of three core business units, Patheon Pharma Services, DSM Fine Chemicals and Banner Life Sciences.

Ronald McDonald House, Durham, N.C.

High Point Regional, High Point, N.C.

Children's Hospital at Vidant, Greenville, N.C.

Children's Specialized Hospital, Parsippany, N.J.

Oxford University Hospitals, Milton Park, U.K.

"I want to thank all of our employees for their dedication and commitment as we pave a new pathway forward together as one company," said Jim Mullen, CEO of DPx Holdings B.V. "All of our employees across the globe play a key role in the therapies we develop and manufacture on behalf of our customers. This is just one way of recognizing them for everything they do, and we are pleased to be able to make an impact in the local communities where our employees live and work each day."

About DPx Holdings B.V.

DPx Holdings B.V. is the privately held parent company of the Patheon, DSM Fine Chemicals, and Banner Life Sciences businesses. The company is a leading provider of CDMO services, pharmaceutical products and products for other industries. Founded in 2014 as a result of a deal between JLL Partners and Royal DSM, DPx Holdings B.V. has three core business units, comprised of Patheon Pharma Services, DSM Fine Chemicals and Banner Life Sciences. With global headquarters in Durham, N.C., DPx Holdings B.V. has a footprint of more than 20 locations across North America, Europe, Latin America and Australia with more than 8,000 employees. DPx Holdings B.V. offers customers unsurpassed quality, integrated offerings and value through these three core business units. For more information visit www.patheon.com/DPx .

Patheon is a leading provider of contract development and commercial manufacturing (CDMO) services to the global pharmaceutical industry for a full array of solid and sterile dosage forms. Patheon, a DPx Holdings B.V. business unit, encompasses the combined CMO capabilities and pharmaceutical product development services (PDS), as well as the Biosolutions and Biologics (BIO) business. For more information visit www.patheon.com .

Announced in March 2014 as a business unit under the DPx umbrella, DSM Fine Chemicals provides active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) as well as ES/IM products and services that are primarily comprised of agricultural and crop protection chemicals. Its main focus is custom synthesis aimed at pharma and fine chemicals markets, of which the agro-chemicals sector is a primary focus. ES/IM also produces maleic anhydride and derivatives.

Banner Life Sciences' mission is to advance human health with innovation and creativity generating value for society and investors. Acquired by Patheon in December 2012, Banner Life Sciences is DPx's proprietary products business. For more information visit www.bannerls.com .

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
