
A new report from the state showed that profitability of hospitals in the state improved overall last year, but 11 of the 64 still lost money.

Quincy Medical Center lost $13.7 million last year, but South Shore Hospital in Weymouth reaped the second highest profit of any community hospital in Massachusetts – $21.6 million.

A new report from the state showed that profitability of hospitals in the state improved overall last year, but 11 of the 64 still lost money.

Losses last year at Quincy Medical Center were among the highest of any hospital in the state. Leaders of the for-profit hospital chain that owns the hospital blamed the poor showing on low reimbursements and tougher competition.

“Unfortunately, Quincy Medical Center continues to struggle financially because of Medicare and Medicaid funding cuts, increased competition from Boston teaching hospitals, and Granite Medical Group continues to refer patients to hospitals outside the Quincy community,” said Brooke Thurston, a spokeswoman for Steward Health Care System, which purchased Quincy Medical Center in bankruptcy court in 2011.

Quincy Medical Center and Granite Medical Group have been at odds for four years since Steward decided not to allow its employees to see physicians at Granite, which is owned by Atrius Health and serves about 32,000 patients on the South Shore. In response, doctors at Granite began referring more patients to Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital in Milton over Quincy Medical Center.

Six of Steward’s 10 hospitals in the state saw profits last year. Áron Boros, executive director of the State Center for Health Information and Analysis, pointed out that the financial information from Steward represents only nine months of last year because the company’s fiscal year ends Dec. 31, not Sept. 30 like the other hospitals.

“All those Steward hospitals on a system basis, they are making money,” said Boros.

News of the robust profits and balance sheet at 378-bed South Shore Hospital comes in the midst of a controversial takeover bid by Partners HealthCare, the state’s largest health care provider.

“The strong financial performance of South Shore Hospital is, of course, part of the calculation for Partners,” said Boros.

The merger has been mired in governmental scrutiny. The state’s Health Policy Commission warned in February that the deal would drive up costs and crowd out competition without significantly improving care on the South Shore.

State Attorney General Martha Coakley and the U.S. Department of Justice are both reviewing the proposed merger and considering whether to sue to block the deal.

Two other hospitals on the South Shore also posted profits in the 2013 fiscal year. Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital in Milton saw an $8.1 million profit, and Jordan Hospital in Plymouth reported a $2.8 million profit.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
