
A short spell on the oncology ward at St George's hospital during her training convinced staff nurse Nadia Wright that caring for cancer patients was what she wanted to do.

"I was immediately struck by the friendliness here and how upbeat everybody is," she says. "I wasn't sure what to expect but it's a much brighter atmosphere than I imagined."

The ward cares for inpatients as well as day patients who come in for chemotherapy.

Wright says: "What I really like about working here is the chance to get to know the patients and their families. We remember lots of details about them: things that may sound silly, like if they have pets or how they like their tea!"

Wright adds that forming a bond with patients is about more than familiarity: "Cancer patients can deteriorate quickly due to their drugs and the surgery. Knowing them well means we notice if they're off colour or not their normal selves."

When she isn't checking on her patients, Wright is studying so that she can administer chemotherapy. She says: "The career development here is really good, I got onto this course quickly and have lots of support."

Louise Breeze is the ward's practice educator and she encourages staff to continually develop their skills and knowledge. "Cancer treatment is fascinating and fast-moving," she says. "We tap into lots of research to make sure we are always at the forefront. Every patient's cancer is different and so we train our staff to give highly individualised care."

Julie Paska, one of the senior sisters, says that she likes the fact that there is a high ratio of nurses to patients – about one to four. Another positive aspect for her is the links the ward has with other services and hospitals. Staff work closely with the Royal Marsden because St George's patients are treated there too. Karen Musee, resourcing specialist lead, says: "We also go there for some courses which is great. You get lots of opportunity on this ward and there is lots of input from other specialties so the learning continues outside of the classroom too."

Matron Julie Nicholson says the mix of ages and nationalities of staff and patients on the ward makes for an interesting workplace. "It's a supportive environment and we have more fun than you might expect, given the nature of our work. But of course we see many more success stories and although we're sad when our patients leave, we're also delighted because it usually means that they are either cured completely or well enough to go home and get on with their lives."

She adds: "The standard of care here is excellent and makes us all very proud which matters. There's no point going into nursing if you don't want to do the best job for your patients."

St George's is London's biggest single site hospital. It shares its location with St George's, University of London, which is the only university in the UK solely dedicated to health research and training health and social care professionals. The Trevor Howell oncology ward is now looking for senior staff nurses (band 6) and experienced band 5 staff nurses .

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
