
A SECOND major North-East hospital trust has issued a warning about its finances.

Within a week of the South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust announcing it has called in specialist consultants to help cut spending, County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust warned staff that its investment plans could be derailed if productivity and efficiency is not improved.

South Tees issued a warning that it was “facing an extremely tough financial challenge” because of efficiency savings demanded by the Government, increasing pressure from emergency care and an increasingly elderly population.

The Middlesbrough-based trust has already reduced a forecast deficit from £49m to £29m but has called in consultants McKinsey to ensure the trust is not £50m in the red by the end of the following financial year.

Ms Jacques says her trust – which runs Darlington Memorial Hospital and the University Hospital of North Durham - was also under pressure despite ending 2013-14 with a surplus for investment of around £5m.

Over the next two years County Durham and Darlington plans to improve the quality of care it delivers and recruit more permanent clinical staff. In the longer term managers are looking at where they might need to make changes.

A spokesman for the Royal College of Nursing’s Northern region said: “The serious funding challenges currently facing individual NHS trusts cannot be seen in isolation. Budgetary pressures at one hospital trust inevitably have a knock-on effect at neighbouring providers. The new way in which services are commissioned and resources are allocated, exacerbates this sort of problem.

Shows in harsh detail the effects of the Tory cuts on the NHS, the ideological plan of the Tories to cut the NHS to the point where it fails and to privatise piece by piece by the back door.

"South Tees issued a warning that it was “facing an extremely tough financial challenge” because of efficiency savings demanded by the Government"

"An almost wilful neglect" - No I suspect there is no "almost" about it, the neglect is very much wilful, it is ideology driven by this Tory administration who want to pivatise the health service for the benefit of the rich and who frankly couldn't care less if it cost the lives of ordinary people.

The NHS is not safe in Tory hands.

£95 Billion is lost to this country in tax every year from a combination of fraud and tax evasion yet the Tories concentrate their attention on cutting services for the poor rather than collecting the money stolen by the rich.

Perhaps the incompetents who run the Trusts should be removed and replaced by people who know what they are doing.

Take the story of Hinchingbrooke Hospital in Cambridgeshire. This was run by incompetents for many years and its care standards were falling year on year. It also had 40 million Pounds of debt. Two years ago, the government let Circle take this failing hospital over. Now Hinchingbrooke has been voted the top in the country for patient care. All services have improved dramatically. It will also be back in the black next year. Needless to say bean-counters others have been removed from the Board, and it it now consists mainly of clinicians who know about hospitals.

Hitchingbrooke hospital was named as best in the country by Capita, a company with more than a passing interest in privatising hospitals.

The Health Service Journal said that Circle were unlikely to pay off the debt.

The public accounts committee said their aims were "over ambitious and unlikely to be achieved"

So not as rosy a picture as you would have us believe.

Part privatisation by Blair has created most of the financial problems faced by the NHS today, they are being exacerbated by the Tories rush to fully privatise noiw.

The answer is to fully renationalise cutting waste and beurocracy at a stroke.

The NHS is not safe in Labour hands.

The coalition ring fenced NHS spending. Labour voted to cut it. If you want to know what an NHS run by Labour would look like, just see the destruction they have wrought in Wales. . The NHS is not safe in Labour hands.

The Tory led government imposed a 2% year on year cut to the NHS badly masked as "efficiency savings"

The NHS is not "run by Labour" in Wales. The NHS is run by NHS managers, those managers are appointed by the NHS commisioning board. That is done without any politicians other than the various ministers of the government of the time in charge.

The Tories are responsible for the cuts to the NHS budget, both in terms of below inflation rises and enforced "efficiency savings" cuts.

& yes I do know what £120 billion is. It is an awful lot of money. It is enough to pay the entire unemployment bill in the UK for roughly a generation.

It is enough to pay the entire pension bill for roughly 4 years.

It is enough to pay for ALL the services that the tories have cut for the entire 5 years of this government, and to have a good chunk left over to reduce the deficit.

It is enough to account for why the richest 1000 people in the UK have seen their wealth rise by 15% in the last year alone while the majority of the population have continued to get poorer.

So yes I know what £120 billion is thanks.

Actually that's a good point point bambara. You make the old Russian regime look conservative so touche.

It, like a lot of the public sector, is either top heavy, badly managed or, most likely, both.

Actually that's a good point point bambara. You make the old Russian regime look conservative so touche. We agree that £120 billion is a fair chunk of change so if all you have to do is manage and spend it properly why are 'NHS trusts' going bust left, right and centre ? Unlike private sector management they don't even have to show a profit so are you suggesting that the NHS is well managed ? It, like a lot of the public sector, is either top heavy, badly managed or, most likely, both.

1. A 2% cut to their funding every year, year after year instituted by the government.

3. Increased pressure on the trusts due to an aging (and increasing) population.

4. Below inflation funding rises which further compound the impact of the 2% annual cut.

So largely down to government meddling, government cuts and government underfunding.

But then a "not for profit" organisation would not be expected to show a profit, and it would be immoral to look to make a profit from the suffering of the sick and vulnerable.

Note companies like big tobacco & the parasitic high interest loan companies would be expected to show a profit, but then I wouldn't want the management of those companies in charge of the health care of the vulnerable.

NHS - We pay half what the USA does for our health care and the World Health Organisation ranks the UK NHS ahead (and well ahead) of the USA for the quality of the service provided. - So much for the efficiency and quality of private industry.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
