
THEY came, they debated and they declared victory — seven times in less than six weeks. But the novelty of televised debates ahead of this year’s European elections appears to have generated limited enthusiasm.

In Italy, an estimated 0.48 per cent of viewers — or 127,000 people — tuned in to watch the four candidates for the post of European Commission president go toe-to-toe in Florence on May 9, according to state broadcaster RAI. A day earlier, in Germany, a prime-time “TV Duel” on ZDF between conservative candidate Jean-Claude Juncker and socialist candidate Martin Schulz held gained a bit more interest, drawing in 1.79 million viewers — a market share of 5.8 per cent.

But that was nearly 4 million viewers less than the German broadcaster had usually attracted on Thursday evenings with a fictional series about mountain rescuers. “The desire to improve the campaign process for the European Parliament elections… is a positive development, but ensuring that it will be successful still remains a challenge,” Sonia Piedrafita and Vilde Renman of the Centre for European Policy Studies think-tank warned in a recent paper.

“The European Parliament election campaign is operating under the slogan ‘This time it’s different’… It could be the case, however, that no major changes take place,” they added.

Low voter turnout has been an endemic problem for the quinquennial elections, which are held in all of the European Union’s 28 member states to choose a new European Parliament.

The problem is of particular concern for this year’s polls, scheduled for May 22-25, because observers believe that low interest will help eurosceptic and far-right politicians gain ground — potentially complicating EU lawmaking for five years to come.

In a bid to win voters’ attention, the major political parties have for the first time picked their contenders for European Commission president and sent them campaigning across the EU. Critics, however, complain that the candidates are relatively unknown outside Brussels and fail to galvanise the average citizen. Most of the contenders have spent much of their careers in EU corridors, as prime ministers or parliamentarians.

“The European political parties should have put forward candidates who were not only credible but also recognisable to European voters,” Piedrafita and Renman said, while underlining the challenge of finding people who appeal beyond the national level.

Charles Grant of the Centre for European Reform think-tank also laments the fact that the candidates from the largest political parties “are remarkably similar,” even though they “claim to be offering voters a choice of Europes.” Juncker and Schulz, who are considered the top candidates by virtue of their parties’ sizes, reject such criticisms. Election campaigns do not need to feature “mass brawls without reason,” Juncker said during the ZDF debate.

Different constellations of candidates have taken part in the seven televised debates, held by European, French, German, Austrian and Italian broadcasters. A final Juncker-Schulz showdown is scheduled for today evening, courtesy of the German broadcaster ARD.

But uncertainty has pervaded the process, amid concerns that EU governments — which also have a say in the commission appointment — may choose to go with an outside candidate. Analysts also think logistical issues may have affected public interest.

Only a few of the debates were broadcast on major national channels, with many relegated to less popular news or parliamentary channels.

The bloc’s 24 official languages also posed a challenge. The largest debate, involving all five of the commission presidential candidates and broadcast by Euronews on May 15, was offered in 13 languages to their worldwide audience — but just eight were official EU ones. “The communication difficulties will act as a dividing force between the candidate and the voters,” Piedrafita and Renman noted.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
