
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

The threat is not over for the Balkans as the worst floods to hit in over a century bring new dangers from landslides and unearthed landmines.

Belgrade: Thousands of people crammed into boats and army trucks have fled their homes in Serbia and Bosnia after record rainfall turned the Sava River into a deadly torrent and caused the worst floods in more than a century.

According to officials in both countries, the disaster has killed at least 44 people.

Some towns have been cut off and rescue teams feared the worst as improving weather allowed them to move in.

Russian cargo planes carrying boats, generators and food joined rescue teams from around Europe and thousands of local volunteers in evacuating people and building flood defences after the Sava, swollen by days of torrential rain, burst its banks. Rains eased and floodwaters receded on Sunday in some of the worst-hit areas, but the Sava was forecast to rise further.

About 10,000 people have been evacuated so far from the worst-affected areas of northern Bosnia. In the town of Samac, hundreds of stranded residents were waiting to be rescued.

"We sent rescue teams into a part of the city we had not been able to access so far. They are entering those areas fearing what they might discover," Mayor Samo Minic  said on Sunday.

The worst rainfall since records began in the late 19th century caused landslides that brought more destruction and also prompted a landmine warning. Bosnia's de-mining agency said residents around the towns of Doboj, Maglaj and Olovo - which saw fierce fighting during the war in the 1990s - should be particularly wary.

Twenty of the 27 deaths recorded in Bosnia occurred in the north-eastern town of Doboj, while on the other side of the Sava River, in Serbia, at least 16 bodies were found. The regional police chief there described a "tsunami" of water.

A Reuters cameraman at the scene said half the town was still submerged.

Soldiers delivered food and medical supplies by truck, boat and bulldozer. Cranes lifted medical workers into some homes and removed stranded residents from others.

Prime Minister of Bosnia's autonomous Serb Republic Zeljka Cvijanovic compared the devastation with Bosnia's 1992-95 war, in which 100,000 people died. "The damage is such that we cannot recall even after the war," she said.

Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said: "The situation is catastrophic."

The death toll in Serbia stood at 16, with 12 bodies recovered from  the worst-hit Serbian town of Obrenovac, he said. "Unfortunately, there are estimates that the death toll will be higher."

 In Croatia, the government said one person had died and two were missing in flooded villages in the eastern corner of the country near Bosnia and Serbia. The army used amphibious vehicles to help evacuate about 3000 people.

The Ukraine emergencies ministry said electricity had been cut to about 100 villages in the north and west because of heavy rains and winds, although no casualties had been reported.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
