
Kaiser Permanente Hawaii today announced the addition of three new physicians who join over 500 care providers within the state’s largest medical group, the Hawaii Permanente Medical Group (HPMG), which provides comprehensive care to Kaiser Permanente’s 235,000-plus members in Hawaii.

New physicians include Kathleen Morimoto-Nishioka, MD, a specialist in pediatrics practicing at the Koolau Medical Office; Jeff Smith, MD, a specialist in family medicine who will be practicing at the Kahuku Clinic; and Royden Young, MD, a specialist in infectious disease, joining the Moanalua Medical Center.

Dr. Kathleen Morimoto-Nishioka earned her medical degree from the University of Hawaii, John A. Burns School of Medicine and completed her pediatric residency through Loma Linda University and the University of Hawaii. Previously, Dr. Morimoto-Nishioka practiced at Windward Pediatrics in Kaneohe. She is board certified in pediatrics and is a fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics.

Dr. Jeff Smith received his medical degree from the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center School of Medicine and completed his family medicine residency at the McLennan County Medical Education and Research Foundation in Waco, Texas. He most recently served as a family medicine physician at the Family First Medical Center and medical director at the Rock Creek Nursing Home in Sulphur Springs, Texas. Dr. Smith is board certified in family medicine.

Dr. Royden Young earned his medical degree from the University of Hawaii, John A. Burns School of Medicine and completed his internal medicine residency at Indiana University School of Medicine, where he also completed his fellowship in infectious disease. Previously, Dr. Young practiced as an infectious disease subspecialist at the Queen’s Medical Center. He is board certified in infectious disease and internal medicine, and currently serves as an assistant clinical professor of medicine at the John A. Burns School of Medicine.

Your privacy is important to us. See our Privacy Policy .

Stay up to date with your community!

Get news & deals from Urban Honolulu for free!
