
BRUSSELS, May 19 (KUNA) -- The EU Monday clarified that its election observation mission to Egypt for the presidential elections scheduled on 26-27 May will go ahead as planned after western media reports yesterday said that the EU will not send the mission.

The EU has been invited by the Egyptian authorities to observe the upcoming Presidential elections. High Representative Catherine Ashton, with the support of EU Member States and the European Parliament EP, responded positively to this invitation, Michael Mann, spokesman for Ashton, told a news conference here today.

"Administrative challenges delayed the early implementation of the mission but the clearance of the necessary equipment for the mission has been finally given thanks to the constructive engagement of the (Egyptian) Ministry of Foreign Affairs," he noted.

Mann stated that the EU has been committed to the elections observation in Egypt all along.

"However, because of the delays incurred, we needed to adjust our mission in order to operate in line with our widely respected patterns of election observation. The EU continues to maintain its engagement to Egypt in the election process through its Electoral Team, " he said adding that the mission will  be led by the Portuguese MEP Mario David.

"Our intention remains to have this elections mission deployed as widely as possible outside Cairo, and with a fair number of observers on the field: in the run up to elections, on the election day, and during the aggregation of results," said the spokesman.

He explained that the EU Electoral Team has been assessing overall the legal framework on the ground, and will continue to observe the campaign period in all the Cairo region, the performance of the election administration, and the overall political environment in order to ensure free and fair elections, including respect for fundamental freedoms, and of civil and political rights.

"It also follows closely the performance of the media, voting, counting and tabulation of results, as well as the handling of possible complaints and appeals," he said.

The EU team will present its initial findings in a preliminary statement two days after the elections. A comprehensive analysis by the EU Team with specific elections process recommendations for further consideration by the Egyptian authorities, will be published at a later stage, he added.
