
When most 13-month-olds are picky, it's all about taste. For Maehlee Her, it's a matter of life and death.

Little Maehlee has a rare digestive disorder that makes her white blood cells attack her body every time she swallows food.

Her desperate parents have been able to find one foot that doesn't cause her to break out in horrible fits of vomiting and diarrhea - squash.

Mother Marci Flory and father Kao Her tell the Topeka Capital-Journal that they were lucky to find that one thing their daughter could eat.

At one point, she hadn't eaten anything for 15 hours straight.

Even a single morsel could set her body against her. On recent afternoon, Maehlee found a doughnut crumb at her grandmother's house and put it in her mouth.

Vomiting and screaming for hours followed almost immediately.

Topeka doctors told Mr Flory and Mr Her that Maehlee simply had a colic or bad acid reflux.

But, after months of enduring their daughter's screams, the family took Maehlee to Children's Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, Missouri, where doctors found  white patches in her throat and a biopsy showed high levels of white  blood cells.

'The white blood cells are wired wrong, and when children with this  condition eat food, the white blood cells come in to fight off the food  because they think the food is a foreign invader,' Ms Flory explained to  the Capital-Journal.

Doctors said Maehlee had eosinophilic esophagitis, a  digestive disorder. They told the parents to  take her off all food and put her on Elecare, an amino acid-based  medical food.

For months, the Elecare had to be fed directly into Maehlee's stomach through a tube in her nose.

Now, she can drink the food through a bottle. But it doesn't taste very good.

'It tastes like cardboard. It's the most disgusting stuff I've ever tasted,' Ms Flory said.

Her parents have slowly but surely been trying out simple foods to see whether Maehlee can tolerate them.

It's no mystery when something doesn't agree with her. She screams and cries and throws up.

So far, the only thing that her parents have found is squash.

However, they are currently testing her with white potatoes, apples and bananas - all in very small quantities.

Ms Flory's insurance covers the doctors visits, but it does not cover the medical food - which Maehlee still needs to survive.

It costs Ms Flory and Mr Her up to $900 a month.

Meanwhile, the girl's parents hide their own eating from their daughter because she wants to have what they're eating.

'We have to hide it from her, which is not very fair,' Ms Flory said. 'With all the appointments, it's a struggle to keep her feeling good every day and to keep up with all our everyday business.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
