
International archaeological contracts:  In addition to the museums under construction, contracts have been signed between the Saudi government and around 30 archaeology teams from around the world—including one from Oxford—to carry out research into the desert land and to uncover exhibits.

Michael Petraglia, professor of human evolution and prehistory at Oxford’s School of Archaeology, who is leading a unit investigating climate change and the peopling of Arabia, said that there are “tens of thousands” of unexcavated sites across the country. “There is an abundance of archaeology in an area traditionally thought of as quite empty,” he said. Until recently, little pre-Islamic research has been done in the country because of opposition from religious scholars, who claim it is ungodly. Now, however, clerics sit on the committee of the SCTA advising on the new cultural programme.

“Islam is a great religion and through its openness and sustain­ability it has enlightened the rest of the world,” said Prince Sultan. “But if we only research the history of Saudi Arabia post 610AD [the year in which Mohammed had his vision and began to preach] and say nothing about our history before then, we are belittling Islam.

Arabia was once green The conference in Oxford brought together research proving that 1.7m years ago, Saudi Arabia was no desert but a savannah, full of trees and lakes and occupied by a host of mammals including elephants and cheetahs, as well as humans.

The Nabataeans were here  Provinces like Al Jawf in the north of the country, which is rich in archaeological finds, have been earmarked as potential attractions, as have settlements such as Mada’in Saleh, a town founded by the Nabataeans in the first century AD and dubbed the “Saudi Arabian Petra”, because of its ancient necropolises carved into rocky outcrops.

“Mada’in Saleh was not only on the caravan route linking Arabia Felix (now Yemen) and the port of Gaza, where the frankincense, myrrh, spices and herbs went to Greece and Rome. It was also a real city, the southernmost of the Nabataeans, with a sophisticated irrigation system and intense agricultural activity,” said Dr Laila Nehmé, the research director at the archaeology department of the French National Centre for Scientific Research, who is leading a research team financed by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the SCTA.

Other striking finds include the numerous rock drawings dating to 7,500BC at Jubbah in the north of the country, and four stone hieroglyphic cartouches of Ramesses III at Tayma, which prove how Saudi once linked Egypt and the East.

What is believed to be the third biggest mosque in Saudi Arabia, ­possibly dating as far back as the sixth century AD, has been found at Al Kharj, as well as some 7,000-year-old Gulf pearls.

Dr Abdullah Alsharekh, the director of the Prehistory Programme at King Saud University, said that although these discoveries were ­“fantastic” they were “not unexpected”. Saudi scholars, he pointed out, have been researching the archaeology of the peninsula for years and he drew attention to the 12 national teams that are collaborating with the international ones. He acknowledged, however, that they did not always have the latest equipment at their disposal and would benefit from greater government investment as well as “knowledge transfer” with foreign universities, including exchange programmes. Since the National Museum of Saudi Arabia in Riyadh opened 14 years ago, its visitor numbers have jumped from 90,000 to 140,000 a year. Whether there will be enough visitors to fill a further 230 museums and whether tourists from abroad can be persuaded to visit a country whose reputation for intolerance and secrecy dominates outside perception remains to be seen.

All comments are moderated. If you would like your comment to be approved, please use your real name, not a pseudonym. We ask for your email address in case we wish to contact you - it will not be      made public and we do not use it for any other purpose.
