
The Everyday Heroes series celebrates the extraordinary lives of ordinary people.

Hanover ophthalmologist Carl May said he remembers looking out the clinic's window and thinking with disbelief, "Are they here to see us?"

May, a physician with over 20 years experience in Hanover and his own practice, The May Eye Care Center, and his 17-year-old daughter, Carolyn May, were part of an all-volunteer medical team that performed cataract surgeries last month for those in need in San Quintin, a coastal town in Baja California, Mexico.

The trip was in conjunction with two non-profit organizations, SEE International and Flying Samaritans, an organization of volunteer airline pilots that transports doctors to areas that need medical care. Carolyn, a senior at McDonogh High School in Owings Mills, had been looking for a volunteer trip she and her dad could do together ever since her study abroad experience in Peru in 2013. She found SEE and put her dad in touch.

Cataracts are a leading cause of blindness in the world, May said, as the normal lens in the eye gets cloudy with age. May treats patients for cataract issues all the time in York County, but it's caught earlier and is usually treated one eye at a time, he said.

For patients who have lost sight in both eyes, the condition is reversible, but surgery is required.

In San Quintin, many of the patients were completely blind, some having endured their condition for years, he said. May recalled a scene between a husband and his wife after the husband removed his post-surgery eye patch.

"One man said 'you're so old' to his wife; he hadn't seen her in so long," May said.

Carolyn, who is planning on being an ophthalmologist, kept a journal of their experience. She agreed that the patient reactions once sight was restored — crying, hugging, some "falling to their knees with happiness" — were powerful and her favorite part to record each day.

The five-day journey also presented the Mays with some challenges not normally found in York County.

One morning, the clinic ran out of water.

"We're operating, trying to clean our instruments, and two hours later, we're still waiting," May said, adding that a truck eventually arrived and refilled the clinic's tank.

Later that afternoon, May and his team had to stop again when their operating tables were borrowed for two emergency C-sections. Carolyn got to be in the operating room and watch both procedures that day, May said, as well as being a circulating nurse during the trip, something teens are not allowed to be part of in U.S. operating rooms.

May said their Mexico experience has had a lasting effect on both of them. His daughter still talks about their trip every day. For his part, the time renewed his interest in helping others get access to good medical care, something he's always wanted to do and definitely plans on continuing down the road.

But for now, back in York County, he's grateful for the not-so-little things.

"When I came back, surgery was so easy," he said with a laugh.
