
A large earthquake has rolled through California, damaging some buildings, igniting fires and knocking out power.

12:58 - That will be all for live updates of the Balkans flooding. News24 will keep you posted on the latest developments.

11:31 - B92 in English tweets that France has responded to Serbia's call for assistance.

9:33 - Serbia and Bosnia have appealed for international aid as over 10 000 people have been evacuated and the region is threatened by landslides and the ever-present problem of unexploded landmines - BBC News.

9:26 - The death toll in the Balkans floods has reached 44 according to a Guardian report.

8:54 - JelenaRisticFanclub tweets Balkans flooding sparks mass evacuation and concerns landmines could surface.

8:53 - Zainab Cosic, who currently lives in Australia but is having a house built in Sarajevo City, tells News24: “My in-laws are okay. They’re in a high flat anyway. My father-in-law lost some crops on his land and some bees but nothing major.” Cosic’s in-laws currently live in Bosnia and Cosic and her husband plan to move there from Australia as soon as their house is complete.

8:41 - In this video [time 02:00-03:00] The neighbours are shouting for people to get out of the house quickly. Then a man asks “where is my almir?” . Almir is his son.

8:09 - Reuters: Soldiers, police and villagers are battling to protect power plants in Serbia from rising flood waters as the death toll from the Balkan region's worst rainfall in more than a century has reached 37.

Workers at the plant are joining the effort, digging up a road in a bid to divert waters that threatens to flood nearby coal mines. The Kostolac plant supplies 20% of Serbia's electricity needs.

7:46 - SkyNews reports that the Balkans flooding has triggered more than 3 000 landslides. Read more here .

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
