
Residents concerned about plans for a 37-lot development off Southwest West Hills Road met for the second time Monday night with the developers.

We all have an immediate and critically important choice to make concerning the future for ourselves and our progeny.

One is to follow the recommendations of Carla Wise’s April 22 “As I see it: We can act to improve climate change outlook.” It is consistent with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which has repeatedly warned that we must convert from fossil fuels to solar, wind and geothermal power at a much faster pace.

We must use these clean forms of energy to condition our homes, propel our vehicles and perform all other human activities, if we are to avoid unprecedented suffering and finally human extinction.

Unlike Mr. Rentz, I have no concern for the users or producers of fossil fuels. Why should I, when they have no concern for the future of my grandchildren? Their egregious behavior will stop only when the prices of fossil fuels compensate for the damage they cause to human health and security.

I am telling my state and federal representatives that, if they want my vote, they must enact legislation, comparable to the Citizens Climate Lobby’s carbon fee and revenue proposal.

Please join me and other responsible citizens in this effort.

Copyright 2014 Corvallis Gazette Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

During the ice age there was 180ppm co2 and at the start of the industrial evolution we had 280ppm. Now we are at 400ppm. CO2 has the mechanism to reflect infrared back to earth causing the earth to get warmer. The mechanism can be observed visually in the link below.

I'm with Walt Eager and he is right on, on this.

I'll be there to counter your vote Walt. While your un-accountable UN IPCC has repeatedly and hysterically warned us about the coming climate doom, they are unable to prove it.

Follow Us!

Quick notification of big news. Delivered when news breaks (used sparingly).

Get updates about the Beaver sports. Delivered 3 times a week.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
