
Medical records blown from a dumpster and scattered were found by a KC man.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

KANSAS CITY, Mo. - At least several dozen, but possibly hundreds, of confidential medical records were scattered to the winds outside Research Hospital on Monday afternoon, potentially exposing the personal and medical information of scores of former patients of Midwest Women’s Healthcare.

A man driving in the neighborhood near 63rd and Prospect Avenue late Monday morning noticed several pink sheets of paper fluttering in the wind. He stopped to examine one and found it was a medical record from Midwest Women’s Healthcare Specialists. Tracing the pink sheets back towards the hospital, he discovered a crew dumping the papers into an open-topped dumpster on the hospital’s north side.

The wind carried many away, the observer said, and the trash crew continued.

The man collected some 70 patient records and provided them to 41 Action News. He estimated five times as many blew away before he could gather them, with an unknown number scattered before he arrived. He asked for anonymity to discuss what he found on-camera.

"At Midwest Women's Healthcare maintaining patient privacy is our top priority,” a spokesperson for the organization told 41 Action News. “We are aggressively investigating this issue and will take appropriate action based on our findings."

Of the records examined by 41 Action News, most are of appointments made between August and September of 2011. All the patients are women. Their names, phone numbers, home addresses and social security numbers are clearly legible, as are the reasons for their visit.

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
