
Indonesian presidential frontrunner Joko Widodo has chosen a former vice president as his running mate for July's election, a senior party official said.

Mr Widodo, 52, who is popularly known only as Jokowi, picked Jusuf Kalla to pair with him following intensive negotiations between his party, the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P), and other parties.

"After meeting all the party chairpersons... it was agreed on Jusuf Kalla," PDI-P vice secretary general Tjahjo Kumolo told reporters.

Recent opinion polls show a Jokowi-Kalla ticket is by far the most popular pairing for the July 9 presidential polls .

Candidates and their running mates must be registered by May 20.

If no candidate wins more than 50 per cent of the vote in first round, there will be a second round in September.

Mr Kalla served as vice president during President Susilo  Bambang Yudhoyono's first term in office from 2004 to 2009.

More recently, the 72-year-old businessman from the east of the country has been head of the Indonesian Red Cross.

Analysts say picking a veteran politician is a wise move for Mr Widodo, who has never had a role in national politics.

"We are convinced that both of us can bring a movement of change to this country that we love," Mr Widodo said in front of a cheering crowd in central Jakarta on Monday.

Former general Prabowo Subianto of the Gerindra party is expected to be the only other person who will contest the presidency.

Mr Widodo has become a political phenomenon since being elected Jakarta governor in 2012.

He has temporarily stepped aside from his post as governor to contest the election.

He rose to prominence after serving as mayor of a small town on the main island of Java and has won many admirers with his down-to-earth style.

However Mr Widodo's hopes of an easy ride to the presidency were dealt a blow at legislative elections in April, which set the stage for the presidential polls.

His PDI-P did not do as well as expected, meaning the party has had to form a larger coalition than it might have liked to put him forward for the presidency.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
