
Thousands of toddlers are being prescribed medication that health officials say could be entirely inappropriate for them and even detrimental to their health.

According to the New York Times, a study led by Susanna Visser with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that 10,000 toddlers — children age 2 and 3 years old — are receiving medication for ADHD. Visser’s data comes from Medicaid claims filed in Georgia and private claims filed nationwide as cited by the research firm MarketScan.

“If we applied Georgia’s rate to the number of toddlers on Medicaid nationwide, we would expect at least 10,000 of those to be on ADHD medication,” Dr. Visser told the Times, noting that the MarketScan data of private insurance claims would only add more to that estimate.

The American Academy of Pediatrics suggests that children with possible behavioral issues be evaluated for ADHD starting at age 4, not as early as 2 or 3 when Visser found some children are being medicated. The CDC also doesn’t recommend evaluating a child for ADHD before this age.

Even for younger patients diagnosed with the disorder — those 4 to 5 years old — the CDC recommends behavioral treatment first and medication only after behavior interventions didn’t result in any improvement.

“Treating babies with stimulants is based on no research, is reckless and takes no account of the possible harmful, long-term effects of bathing baby brains with powerful neurotransmitter drugs,” Allen Frances, a professor emeritus at Duke University and former chairman of the DSM-IV (the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) task force, wrote in a piece for the Huffington Post regarding the CDC’s recent findings.

Spread the word!

Unfortunately, TheBlaze is not available on .

But you can help! Call at or press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

But you can help! Press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

I would like to receive news and information from TheBlaze.

Please try again later.

Give us a Scoop!

Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.
