
BOULDER CITY – One individual was killed and more than 15 people were rescued Sunday in separate incidents at Lake Mead National Recreation Area.

Rangers were called in to support 15 unique rescues that included near drownings, disabled vessels, disabled vehicles and medical emergencies.

A 30-year-old male from Mexico City was killed in an apparent motor vehicle accident May 18 at Lake Mead National Recreation Area.

Around 3 p.m., the Lake Mead National Recreation Area Interagency Communication Center received a call from a visitor who came across an unresponsive male near a motor vehicle around mile marker 20 on Northshore Road.

National Park Service park rangers and Nevada Highway Patrol responded to the scene and located the man who appeared to be involved in a single-car accident.

The Clark County coroner’s office will determine cause of death and confirm his identity after next of kin have been notified.

The victim was not wearing a seat belt. Speed appears to be a contributing factor. The incident is under investigation.

A 12-year-old boy was in critical condition after nearly drowning at Cottonwood East on Lake Mohave in Arizona.

At 2:20 p.m., the Lake Mead NRA Interagency Communication Center received a call from a visitor who reported that a boy nearly drowned. The caller said bystanders provided immediate life-saving care and left the area to transport the boy to a hospital.

Paramedics from the Mohave County Sheriff’s Office located them en route at 3:04 p.m. and began providing care. The boy was transported to Kingman, Ariz., and was later flown to Sunrise Hospital in critical condition.

The victim was not wearing a life jacket.

National Park Service park rangers rescued a 5-year-old girl from drowning at Special Events Beach on Lake Mead.

At 12:50 p.m., the Lake Mead NRA Interagency Communication Center received a call from a visitor who reported that the girl was playing on a knee board when the wind carried her approximately 200 yards from shore and blew her off the board. Two bystanders attempted to rescue her but were flipped off of their personal watercraft.

She was transported to a nearby hospital by Mercy Air in fair condition. Nevada Department of Wildlife game wardens rescued the two bystanders who had no reported injuries.

The National Weather Service reported 20 to 30 mph wind gusts at the time of the incident. The victim was not wearing a life jacket.

Community Ambulance also assisted with the rescue.

A 23-year-old male was rescued along Gold Strike Canyon Trail.

At 5:45 p.m., the Lake Mead NRA Interagency Communication Center received a call reporting that the victim was injured while hiking on the trail.

Officials from the National Park Service and Bureau of Reclamation reached the victim about 1.5 miles from the trailhead just before 8 p.m. He was treated on scene and carried to the trailhead with the assistance of Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department Search and Rescue.

He was transported by ambulance to a nearby hospital.

You may also view our Sitemap .

FOLLOW US!

This site is hosted and managed by Inergize Digital .
