
I write regarding the closure of the Mill Stream Medical Centre in Storrington.

Along with many others I have written to the NHS several times over the last two years regarding the problems we were having with our doctors’ surgery.

One of the partners left, the other partner wasn’t allowed to practice and the centre manager also left. I personally had seen seven different locums in this two year period, not what I call continuity!

As we were hearing so many rumours as to the reasons why, I wrote and asked the surgery and the NHS for some straightforward answers. All that I received (and everyone else) by way of reply was a standard note saying that the problems were being addressed and that it wouldn’t be too long before everything was back to normal.

I had the same reply to two of my letters and no acknowledgement at all regarding another two letters.

The NHS was fully aware of the situation over two years ago, it also had constant letters of enquiries on the same subject during this period.

What has the NHS actually done? Nothing. Nothing at all. Closed its eyes, closed its ears, closed our surgery.

We now have over 4,000 people scrambling around looking to register with other surgeries in either Storrington, Steyning, or Pulborough.

Our letter from ‘NHS England’ says that these doctors are ‘ready to welcome new patients’.

A thousand or more new patients per practice? I think I would be somewhat apprehensive if I was a current patient in any of them!

I do sincerely hope that our more elderly patients will be given every help possible to register with a new doctor. We all know that some can be confused by official letters, some may just not understand and simply not bother.

What will these people do in the future if they require a doctor? Can you hear those receptionists saying ‘sorry, but...’.

So, if you know a confused or elderly neighbour, please ask them if they understand what’s going on and help them if they’re not sure. Don’t expect the NHS to contact them personally.

Just so we don’t forget, the NHS isn’t ‘free’ - just think of all of those thousands of pounds of direct and indirect taxes we all have to pay.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

West Sussex County Times provides news, events and sport features from the Horsham area. For the best up to date information relating to Horsham and the surrounding areas visit us at West Sussex County Times regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website West Sussex County Times requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
