
Doctors ' leaders are always moaning that the profession is overstretched and underpaid, is at the end of its tether, and is about to up-sticks to Australia en masse, where the government treats its doctors with respect. Yet, when I visit my GP's surgery, all is calm. The staff welcome me with a smile.  It is clear to me that they work very hard, and work long hours, but they show no signs of stress or imminent breakdown.

Or is it that the noisy "politician" GPs , who attend  conferences and pass motions condemning any step  government makes in any direction at all, particularly the ones that encourage them to change their 19th century working habits, are not very good at managing their time or their budgets? They are abetted by GP columnists and correspondents in the trade press, who all seem to be on the verge of boarding a plane to leave the country, because of disgust with the NHS .

Clearly, these doctors need courses in time management and resource allocation. Or they should hire more staff, to reduce stress levels. Or they should organise more efficient rotas, to stay open longer. Or, dare I say it, they might even pay themselves less to pay for the extra staff.

GPs pride themselves on being not just clinicians, but independent business people.  They should behave more like real business people, and learn the disciplines which balance resources with maintaining a good customer – ie, patient – service. They might then become more like my efficient GP practice.

It seems to me that some GP practices have allowed their standards to slip. They are now in a spiral that they cannot get out of. Take access, for example. I always get an appointment on the day I ring. Yet I read in the Guardian that "the proportion of patients getting a GP appointment in 48 hours has fallen from 80% under the last Labour government to 40%. Nearly a quarter of people now cannot get an appointment in the same week."

Maybe I have been spoiled by the excellent service I get from my GP, but I wonder how can anybody who calls themself a doctor not be ashamed by such a delay in providing his patients with care? Perhaps bad habits have crept up over time, and  a week or two weeks have come to be regarded as  an acceptable norm. So much so that I read that Ed Miliband's bold promise to guarantee patients a GP appointment within 48 hours "is likely to be deeply unpopular with doctors". So, these doctors are so wedded to their access delays, that they reject an inititiative that is good for their patients.

Why can't the badly-performing GPs get advice from family doctors, like mine, who do offer their patients an adequate booking service? Doctors do seem to be reluctant to learn good practice from one another.

And, why don't patients of those doctors with appalling waiting times rebel, and move to another practice with shorter waits? To help patients choose the prompt GPs, the "choice" websites like Patient Opinion could publish appointment waiting times for individual GPs. That would name and shame the poor performers. And enhance patient power.

Are you a member of our online community? Join the Healthcare Professionals Network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
