
More than 10 years ago, DeAnne LeBlanc detected an engorged tick in her belly button. At that time, the St. Charles County resident had no idea the simple discovery would be the beginning of a nightmare she cannot escape.

“A few weeks after finding and removing the tick, I began having strange neurological problems, but did not attribute them to the bite. By 2010, I was having severe physical and neurological issues. By then, I was mostly bedridden and my daily symptoms were flu-like fatigue, arthritis, numbness and tingling in my hands and feet, migraines, chronic sinus infections, confusion, dizziness, weakness, panic attacks, heart palpitations, eye problems such as blurred vision and pain behind my eye, inflammation and muscle twitching or spasms. But those only scratched the surface of my symptoms,” she said.

Exacerbating the situation was that she went to more than 12 doctors and specialists, with no one able to find a cause for her compromised health.

After years of frustration and pain, LeBlanc finally found a doctor who suspected she had Lyme disease.

Through detection of the bacteria Borrelia Burgdorferi (also known as spirochetes) in her blood sample, LeBlanc was diagnosed as having chronic or late stage Lyme disease. In January of 2013, she began seeing a tick-borne disease specialist (or LLMD) and had her blood tested by one of the best labs in the country – Igenex, which does more thorough testing to detect various strains of the bacteria and can detect infections past and present.

Complicating LeBlanc’s diagnostic process was that laboratory testing for tick-borne diseases is terribly flawed. The tests most doctors use only test for one strain of Lyme and there are over 300 strains in addition to other tick-borne diseases like Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Tularemia, Babesiosis, Bartonella, Enrichlia, tick-borne relapsing fever, and Q fever. The accuracy of the test is also dependent on the stage of the disease, showing a false negative in a majority of cases in the first 4-6 weeks of infection.

This disease, sometimes called the “great imitator,” mimics many other illnesses. In fact, studies have shown that it could be linked to multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, ALS/Lou Gehrig’s disease and even Alzheimer’s.

Since her diagnosis, LeBlanc’s treatment has been aggressive and invasive.

Tick-borne diseases are on the rise, and Lyme disease – the most common tick-borne illness – is especially prevalent in the Midwest, according to the National Institutes of Health.

”Even though I have blood test results that are Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) approved and they confirm I have late-stage Lyme Disease, as well as Babesiosis and/or Bartonella, doctors have told me, ‘It must be a mistake. Lyme is not here,’” LeBlanc said.

With the medical community at odds on the validity of the disease, LeBlanc sought out her own resources to gain a better understanding of it and how to advocate for herself.
