
Forcing a pregnant woman to undergo invasive surgery may sound like the twisted climax of psychological horror film—but one New York mother has filed a lawsuit against Staten Island University Hospital alleging that this is exactly what happened to her. According to Rinat Dray, physicians pressured her into delivering her child via cesarean section against her will.

Despite this, Dray claims the hospital staff began an effort to coerce her into having another C-section once she checked in, prior to giving birth. Dray declined, but after several hours of labor, the attending physician declared he would refuse to examine her unless she agreed to the surgery. He later consulted with the hospital attorney, who authorized his decision to override Dray’s wishes, which eventually resulted in the puncturing of her bladder.

“There is no stage in pregnancy, labor or delivery when women cease to be persons with full civil rights, including the right to medical decision-making,” says Farah Diaz-Tello, a staff attorney for National Advocates for Pregnant Women. Diaz-Tello’s organization aims to assist U.S. women in cases involving forced cesarean surgeries, including those who were threatened by law enforcement or actually arrested for disagreeing with their doctor’s medical advice.

However, Dray’s case coincides with an overall rise in the number of cesarean surgeries. As a new investigation released by Consumer Reports found last week, the rate of C-sections performed during low-risk pregnancies has risen to 18 percent, up from 12.6 percent in 2000. It’s now the second most common surgery in the country, despite the fact that women who undergo it are three times more likely to experience severe bleeding, blood clots, heart attack, kidney failure and major infections than those who give birth naturally. Children born via cesareans are also more likely to face breathing problems and less likely to breastfeed.

As to why doctors prefer the surgery over allowing women to deliver vaginally, Consumer Reports cites that natural births can be very unpredictable, where as cesareans can be scheduled down to the hour and are therefore much more convenient. Women are also heavier and older than they were in the past, which means vaginal deliveries can lead to complications and therefore more liability for the doctor. A financial incentive could be another draw, as Medicaid and private health insurance pay close to 50 percent more for C-sections than for natural births.

Previous c-sections in a patient demanding a vaginal delivery is HIGH risk.  This is not opinion – feel free to use “google” and search yourself.  Also feel free to use pubmed and search in the peer reviewed literature.  Ask yourself – what would have been the medical legal outcome had she ruptured her uterus?  Was she willing to accept the risk?  Was she on pain control thereby inhibiting her abiliTy to make sound decisions?  Lastly, a trained physician and surgeon with decades of practice / training does not make decisions without considering MANY of the implications of their decisions.

John is right.  It is bulling.  I had 3 C-secions and then 3 VBACs afterwards.  The studies that the doctors use are insuffcient to make a general rule about who should have a C-section and who shouldn’t.  Each case should be given individual attention.  I applaud this woman for hitting the doctors where it counts – their pockets.

Sign up to receive the best of Vocativ in your mailbox.
