
Top photo, Keely Johnson, 3, is held by her mom, Sandy Johnson and dad, Lindsey Johnson at their Ormond Beach home. Middle photo, Keely plays with sister Brooke, 6, and her nurse Maria Scalzo. Bottom photo, Scalzo works with Keely as she picks out the different letters of the alphabet.

Last Modified: Friday, May 16, 2014 at 4:28 p.m.

Because of slow development in the womb, doctors were worried Keely Johnson wouldn’t have a face, much less survive birth.

Keely was born with Pierre Robin syndrome with a smaller-than-normal jaw, which results in the tongue falling back in the throat and obstructing the airway.

She breathes with a tracheostomy (trach) tube in front of her neck and needs around-the-clock nursing care, but the 3-year-old is a lot like other kids her age — loving the Disney movie “Frozen,” wearing a pumpkin costume for Halloween and throwing tantrums that sometimes land her in the time-out chair.

Because the girl from Ormond Beach is such a survivor, advocates want to make her an example of what can happen with expert medical care. Keely is about to became the face for other medically-complex kids like herself.

She walks, for example, even through doctors worried that a deformed femur would make walking impossible.

In June, she will travel to Washington, D.C., with her mother, Sandy Johnson, her nurse, Maria Scalzo, and Michael Aubin, the president of the Wolfson Children’s Hospital in Jacksonville for “Family Advocacy Days” organized by the Children’s Hospital Association. Her face will be put on a trading card to help lobby Congress.  She will be among 29 patients from 26 children’s hospitals in 19 states lobbying for Medicaid reforms to help medically-complex children.

“We chose Keely because her family is like many of the families that we serve every day,” said Megan Denk, director of the Players Center for Child Health, Wolfson’s Children Hospital.

Her parents happen to be healthcare professionals themselves. Her father, Dr. Lindsey Johnson, is a pediatrician specializing in intensive care at the Speediatrics department for Halifax Health and her mother, Sandy, is a nurse.

While they know what kind of care their daughter needs, by ethical reasons they cannot be the ones to provide it. “You’re not suppose to treat your own children,” Lindsey Johnson said.

They’re appreciative of the care that Keely has received from Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville, Wolfson Children’s Hospital, Nemours Children’s Clinic, and the University of Florida College of Medicine-Jacksonville.

Her mother was in the hospital for nine weeks before Keely was born weighing 2 pounds, 8 ounces on Christmas Eve, 2010, at Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville. The baby was then rushed to Wolfson Children’s Hospital’s Level III Newborn Intensive Care Unit.

Within five hours of birth, Dr. Mark Hudak, intubated her, putting a breathing tube into her mouth and getting her on a ventilator. “Every time, I see him, I thank him for saving Keely’s life,” Lindsey Johnson said.

Hudak is chief of neonatology for Wolfson Children’s Hospital and chairman of the Department of Pediatrics for the University of Florida College of Medicine in Jacksonville.

Dr. Saswata Roy, a pediatric ear, nose and throat doctor, also had to make a trach tube compatible for the newborn.

Keely would stay in the hospital for four months, receiving a craniofacial procedure to improve her jaw. She came home by ambulance as a safety precaution.

She still requires supplemental oxygen when sleeping and whenever she gets “wound up” and out of breath. Because of concerns that there could be an emergency with the trach, the Johnsons like to have a nurse at home with them.

The Johnsons also have three other daughters  living at home: Molly, 9, Brooke, 6, and Bree, 5. Altogether, the couple has 11 children with each parent having adult children from earlier marriages.

The Johnsons had Keely when Sandy Johnson was 50 and Lindsey Johnson was 58. She is now 54. He will be 62 in July.

Sandy Johnson did not think age was a factor since she had her other daughters in her 40s without problems.

Having such a big family has been beneficial to Keely’s health, said her nurse, Scalzo.

“Her family is what makes her happy, to be around her sisters,” Scalzo said.

The Johnsons hope that Keely will progress to the removing of the trach, which is obstructing her ability to talk. Keely knows some sign language, but is becoming frustrated that she cannot vocalize her thoughts, Sandy Johnson said.

The Johnsons also would like Keely to be fed through her mouth. Currently, she takes formula through a feeding tube, but her mother thinks her preference is more about “cognitive and sensory issues” than something wrong with her mouth.

Sandy Johnson once spied her daughter licking her finger with frosting when the family was making cupcakes.

For Sandy Johnson, a big milestone was just giving her daughter a name.

She remembers being stressed out about whether her child would survive the pregnancy.

“I prayed to God to give me some peace about all this. I dreamed that she lived. God gave me this baby. We had a name app on the (smart) phone. Everyday we would look at names,” she said.
