
BHUBANESWAR: Unusual haste to purchase a costly medical technology, days before the next government takes over, has raised eyebrows in medical circles.

Official sources said the health department is planning to acquire a Gamma Knife, a specialized equipment for radio surgery to remove brain tumour, for the neurosurgery department of  SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. It has called state level purchase committee (SLPC) meeting on Monday to finalize the deal for the equipment worth Rs 36 crore.

An insider privy to the development questioned the tearing hurry shown to buy the technology.

"The bureaucratic set-up is taking advantage of the transition phase in government formation. There is no reason to push for such an expensive machine as the next  health minister would take over in a few days," said a doctor associated with cancer care.

Doctors said the Gamma Knife (stereotactic radio surgery system) is a proprietary item of a Swedish company and considered 'obsolete'. The technology launched in 1967 has a recurring cost because its cobalt source has to be changed every five years at Rs 5 crore.

"The cost is not worth the benefits. The government has to depend on monopoly of one company," a doctor said.

An  Indian hospital last purchased it in 2010 as it is useful only for brain tumours, while alternative available technology works for different types of cancers on various body parts.

The stereotactic linear accelerator system, considered a better alternative to Gamma Knife, is priced at around Rs 12 crore, one-third of the latter. The linear accelerator is supplied by multiple companies, thereby reducing cost. It can also be used for treating tumour in spine, lungs, prostrate and pancreas, another doctor said.

Director, medical education and technology (DMET), Sunamali Bag defended the government move. "The purchase procedure is moving at its usual pace. It is a very useful technology to treat cases of brain tumour. Patients will immensely benefit from it," Bag told Times of India.

The DMET said the equipment is part of government initiative to make SCB a centre of excellence. Regarding the 'obsolete' technology, Bag said the purchase proposal has been mooted in such a way that the company concerned will provide the latest version.
