
PETALING JAYA, May 20 — Child rights groups have called for tougher action against parents who neglect their children as this would serve as a lesson.

Voice of the Children chairman Sharmila Sekaran said although there were different definitions of neglect, parents who did not keep watch over their young ones should be charged.

“It is understandable that the attorney-general’s office takes intention to neglect into account, but all they require is to prove neglect took place whether it was intentional or not,” she said.

Sharmila said it would be up to the parents to prove that they had not neglected their children.

However, the sentencing could be lighter such as under the purview of welfare counselling or community service as she believed imposing fines or prison sentences would not be helpful.

She said a lot more needed to be done for children’s rights, such as amending the Child Act 2001 and including issues pertaining to negligence.

Malay Mail had reported on the lack of action against negligent parents, particularly in cases leading to death or injury.

The Women, Family and Community Development Ministry has called for sterner action against those responsible and proposed an amendment to the Child Act 2001 to enforce stricter punishment.

Among the changes proposed are a deterrent fine of RM20,000, community service, and parenting course and counselling.

Protect & Save the Children executive director P. Nagasayee Malathy said although there had been positive changes in realising the rights of children, there were areas that needed to be looked into such as strengthening the provisions under the Act and other legislation to enhance the child protection system.

“Action must be taken if there is violation of the rights of a child including physical, emotional, sexual abuse and neglect,” she said.

Senior consultant community paediatrician Datuk Dr Amar-Singh HSS, said although some negligence cases were clear-cut, such as leaving a child in the car, there would be some who were sympathetic to the parents and not push for further action, unlike in the cases of persistent negligence such as starvation and poor child care.

“Based on my experience, many situations of negligence are a conflict between parents and doctors. I would use the Child Act and provide care to save a child when parents refuse obvious medical treatment, especially in life-threatening situations, but I never see action being taken against the parents,” he said.

Dr Amar-Singh said the Social Welfare Department hardly ever lodged police reports and instead expected the doctors to do so.

He said that if the Attorney-General’s Chambers took action in some of the cases, it would at least make the parents be more careful in keeping watch on their children.
