
“Nearly 30% of our attendees are joining the conference for the first time,” says Paul Barber, President and CEO of Prophix Software. “We created a fun competition between the customers who have shared their stories with us over the past ten years".

Prophix Software , a leading developer of corporate performance management (CPM) software , today kicked off their user conference in Washington D.C. with a record number of attendees. The event brings together customers from around the globe including representatives from such countries as the US, Canada, Bermuda, Sweden and Denmark. The three day conference will begin on May 18 with a welcome reception at the Fairmont Washington in Georgetown. This year’s agenda will include presentations on use cases from National Electric Vehicle Sweden, Coleman Cable, AAA Southern New England and others.

“Nearly 30% of our attendees are joining the conference for the first time,” says Paul Barber, President and CEO of Prophix Software. “And I’m so pleased to see so many of our customers return year after year. They clearly see the value in learning more about the vast potential of the software’s capabilities to solve their companies’ business problems.

This year, the Prophix user conference will celebrate its tenth anniversary. Since the first conference was held in Toronto in 2005, the number of attendees has grown significantly. In recognition of this important moment in the company’s history, Prophix has added a number of new initiatives to this year’s agenda.

Prophix is also pleased to introduce this year’s guest speaker, Christopher Iervolino, Research Director with Gartner Inc. Iervolino will join the conference on the second day, sharing his knowledge about the evolution of the CPM market along with highlights from Gartner’s 2014 CFO Technology Survey, completed jointly with Financial Executives International.

Continuing an initiative from previous years, Prophix has partnered with a local charity to provide attendees with an opportunity to help those who are less fortunate. In Washington, Prophix is pleased to support Bright Beginnings . The charity focuses on supporting young children and their families – ensuring that they get the support they need when in crisis. Attendees will have an opportunity to build care-packages for children living in shelters or traditional housing.

The Prophix user conference will take place over two days, with a third and final day dedicated to training.
