
Popular Jakarta Gov. Joko Widodo, a front-runner in Indonesia's presidential election to be held July 9, on Monday chose former Vice President Jusuf Kalla as his running mate, a senior party official said.

The 52-year-old governor, who is popularly known only as Jokowi, picked 71-year-old Kalla, to pair with him following intensive negotiations between his party, the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle led by former President Megawati Sukarnoputri, and other parties, according to Hasto Kristiyanto, deputy secretary general of the party.

"Mr. Jokowi decided by himself, based on mandate from Mrs. Megawati, to pick Mr. Jusuf Kalla as his running mate," he told Kyodo News.

Jokowi's party, popularly known as PDI-Perjuangan, failed to gain enough legislative votes and seats to nominate him as presidential candidate on its own.

Under the election law, only political parties or a coalition of parties that have 25 percent of nationally valid parliamentary votes or hold 20 percent of the seats in the parliament can nominate presidential candidates on their own.

Besides PDI-Perjuangan, the election will be contested by the National Awakening Party established by late President Abdurrahman Wahid, the National Democrat Party set up by media tycoon Surya Paloh and the People's Conscience Party chaired by former military chief Wiranto, a retired general.

Kalla, who is now head of the Indonesian Red Cross, was vice president during President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's first term of office from 2004 to 2009. During which time he was chairman of the Golkar Party, the political vehicle of the late dictator Suharto.

He unsuccessfully ran for the presidency in 2009.

The father of five is known for having helped resolve some sectarian conflicts in the country.

In the presidential election, Jokowi is expected to face Prabowo Subianto, a former army general.

Human rights advocates in the country and abroad are deeply concerned over Prabowo's candidacy and his possible chance to win presidency in view of his abysmal record in that regard.

Prabowo headed the army's special force command Kopassus that kidnapped and tortured political and student activists in the late 1990s under Suharto.

Copyright 2014 Kyodo News International.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
