
An elderly woman was injured and flown to Bismarck for treatment after a severe automobile accident at the corner of Highway 85 and 133rd Avenue NW on Wednesday afternoon.

A 2004 Cadillac DeVille being driven by Arlene Isaak, 87, of Arnegard, was struck by a 2013 Dodge Ram being driven by Blake Driscoll, 44, of Roy, Utah.

According to the North Dakota Highway Patrol, Isaak drove into the intersection of the roads, and Driscoll was unable to avoid her.

His vehicle struck the front passenger side of the Cadillac, sending both vehicles off the road.

Isaak was transported to the McKenzie County Hospital and later airlifted to Sanford Hospital in Bismarck.

Isaak was not wearing a seatbelt. Driscoll and his passenger, Nicholas Ouzts, of Pocatello, Ind., were wearing seatbelts, and neither of them were injured in the crash.

In a separate incident, a man was taken to the hospital after a Thursday night crash that left his vehicle upside-down on the side of the highway.

Ricardo Trevizo, 23, of Colorado Springs, Colo., was unable to stop his 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and struck the back of a 2006 Dodge Ram 2500 being driven by Michael Paul, 56, of Beach.

Paul had slowed to turn right off Highway 16 toward Odland Dam, and Trevizo was unable to stop his vehicle and struck the Dodge.

Paul’s vehicle ended up in a pasture west of Highway 16. Trevizo’s vehicle rotated clockwise and overturned after striking the Dodge, and landed on its top on the west shoulder of Highway 16.

Paul was not injured in the crash. Trevizo was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital and given a citation for care required.

Both drivers were wearing seatbelts.

The crashes remain under investigation by the North Dakota Highway Patrol.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 9:41 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

* Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

* Personal attacks, insults or threats.

* Allegations of unsubstantiated criminal behavior.

* The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

* Comments unrelated to the story.
