
Russian President Vladimir Putin has supposedly ordered his  troops to pull back from Ukraine's borders but the U.S. military has yet to see signs of a withdrawal.

"So far, we've seen no evidence of a Russian troop  withdrawal from the Ukraine," Col. Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman, told  reporters on Monday. "If this time the Russians do withdraw their forces from  the border, we would welcome that."

At the White House, Press Secretary Jay Carney noted that  Putin has called for a withdrawal several times previously without following  through, but added that "such a withdrawal would be welcome."

A statement from  the Kremlin said that the troops on the border had finished their spring  training exercises and Putin had ordered them "to return to their usual  garrisons and continue their training at neighboring test grounds."

Air Force Gen. Philip Breedlove, NATO's Supreme Commander and head of the European  Command, has repeatedly said that Russia has massed about 40,000 troops, backed  by attack planes and armored vehicles, on Ukraine's eastern borders in a show  of support for pro-Russian separatists.

Breedlove has also warned that the Russian force could be  used to sweep across southern Ukraine to support other pro-Russian separatists  in Moldova.

NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said  he would be the first to welcome a Russian pullback if it happened. "I  think it's the third Putin statement on withdrawal of Russian troops," Rasmussen said, "but so far we haven't seen any withdrawal at all."

"Withdrawal of Russian troops will be the  first step to de-escalating the situation" in which separatists in  Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine have taken over government buildings in about  a dozen towns and held their own referendum on breaking away from Ukraine to  join Russia.

The provisional government in Kiev has continued  operations to oust the separatists while at the same time preparing for a  referendum on May 25 to elect a new president. The referendum also includes  proposals for decentralization aimed at blunting the appeal of the separatists.

Recent polls show that businessman Petro  Poroshenko, known as the "Chocolate King" for his interests in the candy  business, was the clear frontrunner in the election.

© Copyright 2014 Military.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
