
ABUJA - Dr Mustapha Ashen, the Medical Director, Nigerian-Turkish Nizamiye Hospital, Abuja, has said the hospital was poised to providing similar healthcare services being sought by Nigerian patients abroad.

Ashen made the disclosure in Abuja while signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with VEFA Tourism and Travels Agency on transportation of patients with special cases to Turkey.

He said the hospital would reduce medical tourism by Nigerians because the target of the hospital was to handle all medical cases.

He, however, added that special cases would be referred to its partner hospital in Turkey in the interim.

He listed units in the hospital to include neurosurgery, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, cardiology, radiology and neurology.

Others are the orthopaedic unit, urology, dermatology and laboratory services.

He said “we treat most of the cases that Nigerians seek help for abroad, but for now, anyone we cannot handle, we send the patient to Turkey, especially cardiovascular diseases.

“However, we will start having kidney transplants here; but for now, we send such patients to Turkey.

“Before a patient is sent to Turkey, we send his or her medical report and in the last two months, we sent seven patients, out of which, three are back; one of them had a successful kidney transplant.

The medical director said the cost of treatment in the hospital was affordable as it was the same as charged in other private hospitals in the FCT.

According to him, the hospital would soon provide free cataract treatment to no fewer than 1,500 Nigerians, in collaboration with some Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs).

Ashen said the planned free cataract treatment would commence once all needed equipment were procured.

He added that the hospital operated mobile clinics, in which it visited rural areas in partnership with the FCT Administration, which identified the areas that needed medical help.

On his part, Mr Selami Altay, the Agent Manager, VERA Tourism and Travels Agency, said the agency would offer 20 per cent discount on cost of transportation to patients with special cases that must be taken to Turkey.

He said the agency would also facilitate the granting of visa by the Turkish embassy.

Altay said “we make sure the patient gets visa in one week instead of five weeks, and in urgent cases, we can secure visa in less than one week.

“Under the MoU we just signed, we will provide air ticket, visa, ambulance and every other thing that will make the trip easy for the patients.

According to him, the take-off points are Lagos, Abuja, Enugu and Kano.

Mr Cemal Yigit, Spokesperson for the hospital owners, First Surat Group of Companies, said that the hospital was established to offer quality and standard healthcare to Nigerians.

Yigit said the services rendered in the hospital would reduce the number of Nigerians going to Europe, India and the Middle-East for medical treatment.
