
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I used to work for banks. Now I write about them, and about finance and economics generally. Although I originally trained as a musician and singer, I worked in banking for 17 years and did an MBA at Cass Business School in London, where I specialized in financial risk management. I’m the author of the Coppola Comment finance & economics blog, which is a regular feature on the Financial Times's Alphaville blog and has been quoted in The Economist, the Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and The Guardian. I am also Associate Editor at the online magazine Pieria and a frequent commentator on financial matters for the BBC. And I still sing, and teach. After all, there is more to life than finance.

Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank has finally admitted – to no-one’s surprise – that it needs more capital. It has announced plans to raise 8bn EUR of new Core Tier 1 equity capital (CET1).

Deutsche Bank has long been something of a basket case. In 2007, when the first signs of the impending financial crisis began to appear, it was the most highly leveraged bank in Europe , with assets 68 times its Tier 1 capital. It narrowly managed to avoid sovereign bailout in the financial crisis, but it was a principal beneficiary of the US government’s bailout of AIG and it received liquidity support from the Fed and the ECB.  But its problems weren’t limited to US subprime and toxic derivatives. The Icelandic journalist Sigrún Davíðsdóttir reports that Deutsche Bank had lent extensively to Icelandic banks and was left with the toxic loans when the Icelandic banks failed.

Deutsche Bank also turned out to have sizeable interests in Ireland’s teetering banks. When the Irish property market collapsed, the Irish government – partly at the EU’s insistence – bailed out its banks to prevent a chain of contagion spreading out across the Eurozone and risking the solvency of the large European banks such as Deutsche Bank. The banking crisis caused a deep recession in Ireland, while the bailouts caused a fiscal crisis, eventually resulting in sovereign bailout. The price of this has been five years of painful retrenchment by both government and private sector in Ireland.

But it didn’t end there. Deutsche Bank was also heavily exposed to periphery sovereign debt and associated credit derivatives.  The exposure of German banks to Greek debt and credit default swaps was the principal reason for German nervousness about the private sector accepting losses: it was two years before the inevitable partial Greek default finally happened – by which time, of course, Deutsche Bank had largely unwound its exposures. It escaped serious damage in the PSI, unlike Greek pensioners whose funds were virtually wiped out. The ECB’s Securities Markets Program helped Deutsche Bank and others unload their toxic Greek debt (and other dodgy sovereign debt) at better than market rates. Guess who holds it now? Yes, the ECB does – and the ECB is of course backed by taxpayers. Yet another disguised bailout for Deutsche Bank.

Then of course there were the sovereign bailouts. I wonder how many people realize that the money provided to Greece and other distressed sovereign states by the EU and the IMF IMF went not to rebuild those economies but to make good creditors, including (of course) Deutsche Bank? The real bailout in the Eurozone was of banks, not sovereigns.

But despite all the public and private money that has been thrown at it one way or another, Deutsche Bank is still far from sound. It has recently been under pressure from US regulators to improve its leverage ratio, which at 3.1% is among the lowest in the industry. Its dismal first quarter performance left it with a Core Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) of 9.5%, below its long-standing target of “over 10%” and low enough to worry European regulators. It is under investigation for a variety of regulatory misdemeanors and outright crimes, for which it admits it faces regulatory fines, customer compensation bills and legal costs on an “unknown” scale. And on top of this the EU is tightening capital and liquidity requirements in order to reduce or eliminate the possibility of future taxpayer bailouts. It’s not a good time to be Deutsche.

It’s not clear exactly what drove Deutsche Bank’s latest decision to call for more capital, but the ECB’s imminent Asset Quality Review and stress tests might have something to do with it. The ECB made it clear that banks that failed the stress tests would be forced to deleverage their balance sheets in a hurry or face being wound down. Most banks have understandably preferred to improve their capital position ahead of the stress tests rather than risk the regulator’s ax.

Deutsche Bank’s latest capital raising exercise is in two parts. It is selling 60m shares to Paramount Holdings Services, an investment vehicle owned by Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabor Al-Thania, a member of the Qatari royal family. The shares will be sold at 29.20 EUR per share, raising EUR 1.75bn. The remaining 6.25bn EUR will be raised through a rights issue of up to 300m shares.

There have been some very strange numbers touted around about this exercise. Some people claimed that the Qataris would “own 28% of the bank”, which is certainly not the case: 8% is more like it. And other analysts said that the Qatari sale was at a 30% discount and wondered why existing shareholders had not been offered pre-emptive rights. This is incorrect. At the time of the announcement Deutsche Bank’s share price was 30.70 EUR, though it has slipped a little since. So the Qatari sale is at a slight discount, which is only to be expected. But it is certainly not anything like 30%.

But there is something fishy here. 60m of a 360m share offering is 16.67% of the offering. But the 1.75 bn capital raised from the Qatari sale is 22% of the 8bn anticipated from the whole exercise. That means that the subsequent rights issue must be deeply discounted. If all 300m shares are issued. the issue price will be 20.80 EUR per share. That is a discount of about 32% to the share price at the time of the announcement. So it is not the Qatari sale that is discounted, but the rights issue.  I would guess this is the principal reason why the share price has fallen since the announcement.

But it’s not the only reason. As Sarah Butcher points out , Deutsche Bank’s expected RoE after this exercise will only be a measly 12% by the end of 2016. Shareholders are being expected to cough up all this money for what, exactly? Certainly not the sort of returns they have come to expect – and that other banks such as Barclays Barclays and Credit Suisse, that have made far deeper cuts to their asset base and operations, say they can achieve.

Deutsche Bank’s apparent intention to hold on in the difficult FICC market appears over-ambitious: can they really compete with the American giants in this capital intensive business, even with an 11.8% CET1 ratio? And they don’t appear to have much of a strategy for improving RoE, apart from cost-cutting (their cost/income ratio is still way too high at well over 70%). The share price is already 25% lower than it was at the start of the year, and it seems Deutsche Bank expect it to fall still further – else why the deep discount on the rights issue? Even without taking into consideration Deutsche Bank’s enormous derivatives exposure , which must be costing it a fortune in margin calls, this does not look like a healthy bank.

To me, Deutsche Bank looks very much like the archetypal “too big to fail” zombie bank – draining money from central banks, sovereigns and investors while giving little in the way of returns. The question is for how long investors will be willing to put up with poor returns and repeated demands for more money – for if anyone thinks this is the last of Deutsche Bank’s capital raising, I fear they are very much mistaken. Though admittedly it is far from being the only European bank in this condition. European banks generally are in poor shape. It is to be hoped that the ECB’s stress tests will encourage them to put their houses in order.

It seems likely that Deutsche Bank will eventually be forced to do a far more drastic restructuring of its asset base and riskier operations than currently planned. All I can say is, bring it on. Deutsche Bank needs to implement something much more radical than its current strategy if it is to deliver the returns that shareholders want, the service that customers need and the stability that taxpayers expect. A leaner, meaner Deutsche – or perhaps now more accurately,”teilweise Deutsche” – is in everyone’s interests.

Two events of mid-2007 are typical of Deutsche’s behavior at the peak of the go-go times.

1) IKB: this bank had become a major stuffee for sub-prime garbage. One of its major stuffers had been Deutsche. Deutsche was also a major funder of IKB in the German interbank market. On a Friday afternoon, Deutsche informed IKB that, coming the following Monday, interbank lines were no longer available. Parallel to that, Deutsche had the courtesy of informing the German banking supversion of their decision (claiming responsibility in the interbank market for doing that). Obviously, the following Monday, IKB was dead in the water.

2) Deutsche was a major provider of back-up lines for ABCP issued by conduits. One of those conduits was the Canadian Coventree. When the ABCP market dried out, Coventree called the back-up line. Deutsche refused to provide liquidity stating: “We refer you to the definition of general market disruption; this element of the test has not been satisfied.” Much, much later, the Deutsche unit involved in this agreed to pay a compensation of 1 MUSD.

I rest my case.

Thanks Klaus. As always, when you delve into the detail it looks even worse!
