
A new report launched on Friday 16 May warns that a number of countries in the European Union, including France, Italy and the United Kingdom, are facing critical shortages of natural resources.

Produced by the Global Sustainability Institute at Anglia Ruskin University, the natural resource maps indicate that some countries have less than a year of energy resources remaining and are almost entirely dependent on imports from the likes of Russia, Norway and Qatar.

By using the most recent data on known reserves and current consumption, the maps show that France has less than a year’s worth of its own reserves of oil, gas and coal.

Italy has less than a year of gas and coal, and only one year of oil.

The UK fares only slightly better, with 5.2 years of oil, 4.5 years of coal and three years of gas remaining.

Some Eastern European members fare much better, with 73 years left of coal in Bulgaria and 34 years of coal in Poland.

Meanwhile, Germany has over 250 years left of coal but less than a year of oil and only two years of gas.

By comparison, Russia has over 50 years of oil, over 100 years of gas and over 500 years of coal, based on their current levels of internal consumption.

Dr Aled Jones, Director of the Global Sustainability Institute at Anglia Ruskin, said: “These maps show vulnerability in many parts of the EU and they paint a picture of heavily-indebted European economies coming under increasing threat from rising global energy prices.

H&V News provides a range of both print and online advertising opportunities on our news pages or within the feature pages.

H&V News magazine provides up-to-date, high quality information for the heating and ventilation industry. Subscribe today to guarantee your copies.

Having served the industry for nearly 60 years, H&V News is the only publication to cover the entire heating, ventilation and air conditioning sector. Our coverage provides the most up-to-date industry news and views, delivering information that is invaluable to your business. Become a part of the discussion via Twitter (@HVN_Plus) and LinkedIn .
