
In a seeming bid to ease tensions with the West, President Vladimir Putin orders troops near Ukraine to return to their bases.

Masked recruits for the Donbass Battalion, a pro-Ukrainian militia, learn to use rifles at a training camp in Dnipropetrovsk Region.

MOSCOW—In what could be an attempt to ease tensions with the West and avoid more sanctions, President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian troops deployed near Ukraine to return to their home bases Monday.

Putin also praised the launch of a dialogue between Ukraine’s government and its opponents even as fighting continued in parts of the country ahead of next Sunday’s presidential election.

The seemingly conciliatory approach suggested Putin may believe he has achieved his key goal of maintaining Russian influence over eastern Ukraine without having to send in troops.

Russia still wants guarantees that Ukraine will not join NATO and will conduct constitutional reforms to give broader powers to its regions, something that would allow Moscow to maintain its clout in the Russian-speaking eastern region, which forms the industrial heartland.

The continued unrest in the east is serving Putin by making it difficult for the government in Kyiv to consolidate its control in the region.

Putin specifically ordered Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu to pull back the forces involved in the “planned spring drills” in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions to their home bases, the Kremlin said.

The order appears to go further than a similar statement by the Russian leader two weeks ago that troops were being pulled back from the border to shooting ranges.

The three regions border Ukraine, and the withdrawal of troops deployed there would signal a genuine attempt by Moscow to de-escalate the worst crisis in its relations with the West since the Cold War. It also would be easily verifiable by Western intelligence.

The Kremlin statement didn’t say how many troops would be pulled out or specify how quick the withdrawal would be. NATO has estimated that Russia has 40,000 troops arrayed along the border with Ukraine.

Pavel Felgenhauer, an independent Moscow-based military analyst, said a pullout would be a sign that Putin has decided not to send troops to Ukraine, at least for now.

The U.S. and the European Union have imposed travel bans and asset freezes on members of Putin’s inner circle over Russia’s annexation of Crimea. They have threatened to target entire sectors of the Russian economy with sanctions if Russia tries to derail Ukraine’s election.

Ukraine is to vote on a successor to Kremlin-friendly Viktor Yanukovych, who was ousted as president in February following months of protests in Kyiv.

Pro-Russia rebels, who have seized government buildings in eastern Ukraine and fought government troops, have declared two sprawling provinces independent and vowed to block the election. Ukraine and the West have accused Russia of fomenting the mutiny. Russia denies this.

Meanwhile, fighting continued Monday in eastern Ukraine. Pro-Russia insurgents fired on a Ukrainian army checkpoint near a TV tower outside the city of Slovyansk, killing one soldier and wounding three, Ukraine’s Defence Ministry said.

Associated Press journalists also witnessed mortar fire hitting the village of Andriyivka, just outside Slovyansk. While it was impossible to confirm who fired the mortars, they appeared to come from the Ukrainian government troops’ positions. The shelling damaged a gas main running across a field and onto residents’ lands. The pipeline caught fire, but no residents were hurt.
