
Norbert Dentressangle's fast-growing freight forwarding division (Norbert Dentressangle Overseas) has announced the launch of new services from the UK to Russia, capitalising on the company's specialist market knowledge to help companies access the highly complex Russian market.

Following its acquisition of the freight forwarding activities of the Daher Group in September last year, Norbert Dentressangle has secured a significant presence in the Russian market, employing more than 100 people in three offices in Moscow, Ekaterinburg and Saint Petersburg.

From 1 June 2014, Norbert Dentressangle is offering daily express and weekly consolidated air freight services, along with consolidated and full load ocean freight/road service options. Norbert Dentressangle also offers a complete Customs brokerage and clearance service, with seven customs terminals in key locations providing fast and accurate clearance for import, export and transit shipments. The company's Customs engineering experience has been recognised by Russian Central Customs, who named Norbert Dentressangle as the Best Customs Broker in October 2013.

Thanks to the country's economic modernisation and infrastructure development agenda, along with recent reductions in tariffs on imported goods, Russia is the UK's fastest-growing major export market with exports rising from £2.3bn to £4.8bn between 2009 and 2011. The country's accession to the World Trade Organisation in 2012 is opening up UK exports to 142 million Russian consumers, who have the highest disposable income among the BRIC nations.

Matt Young, UK Commercial Manager for Norbert Dentressangle's Freight Forwarding division said: "Russia represents a massive opportunity for UK companies, however, it is still one of the most challenging markets to do business in. While there are plenty of options for getting freight to Russia, the country's Customs regulations and procedures are extremely complex and subject to change without notice, creating a barrier to successful trading.

"With more than 20 years experience, Norbert Dentressangle offers UK exporters a full range of freight services to Russia, providing a fast and accurate service, which guarantees compliance with local Customs regulations."
