
She said: 'If my mum hadn't died of cancer we would never have got tested'

She lost her mother to cancer, and watched her sister fight the disease.

The heartache prompted Carole Graham to take action, determined to face the killer head on and do all she could to stop it in its path.

Doctors advised the 58-year-old to have a preventative hysterectomy after tests revealed she carried a killer cancer gene, predisposing her to the disease.

But when surgeons carried out the operation they discovered Ms Graham already had ovarian cancer - which would otherwise could have gone unnoticed until it was too late.

Ms Graham, from Pity Me in Durham, said: 'I was totally in shock, it was not what I had expected.

'I thought I was doing this to prevent the cancer but I already had it.

'I was showing no symptoms so it would have gone unnoticed until it was too late.

'If my mum hadn’t died of cancer we would never have tested our genes when my sister Jan was diagnosed. It’s thanks to my Mum that I’m still here.'

Ms Graham was one of the four sisters to receive the life-changing news.

The NHS worker said: 'I was devastated. The gene makes you 90 per cent likely to get cancer.

'So when the doctor told me I carried it, I asked straight away for a hysterectomy.'

As soon as she discovered she had the gene, Ms Graham immediately requested a preventative hysterectomy.

A woman's risk of developing breast and/or ovarian cancer is greatly increased if she inherits a harmful mutation of the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene.

Men who inherit the genes also have an increased risk of breast cancer, and both men and woman with the genes may face a greater risk of developing other cancers.

Genetic tests can check for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, in people with a family history of cancer that suggests the presence of the genes.

If the harmful mutations are found, patients face several options to help manage their risk of cancer, including preventative surgery.

Last May Hollywood star Angelina Jolie revealed she had undergone a preventative double mastectomy to reduce her risk of developing the disease.

Her mother Macheline Betrand died of cancer in 2007.

Jolie, a mother of six and partner of Brad Pitt, said she took the decision to have the procedure because she found she carries BRCA1, which sharply increases her risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer.

On January 8, 2013, she went in to Newcastle’s Royal Victoria Infirmary for her hysterectomy with her sister Pauline, who also carried the gene.

She said: 'We walked hand in hand into that hospital and our beds lay next to each other.

'Before our operations I was crying and she climbed straight into my bed where we cried together.

'Having her there got me through.'

Her sister Pauline added: 'It’s a massive thing having a hysterectomy so we wanted to go in together.

'We needed to grab this by the bones and say "I will not be a victim".'

But for Ms Graham, the operation was not the preventative surgery she had expected.

She said: 'During the operation, they found a cyst on my ovaries.

'They sent it off to be tested and it came back positive.

'I already had cancer of the ovaries and the dreaded gene had caused it.

'Not in my wildest dreams could that have happened. I was devastated.'

Ms Graham had shown no signs of the cancer and her symptoms would have carried on unnoticed.

She said: 'I was told that in a couple of years time if my symptoms began to show, it would have been too late.

'I am just so thankful me and my sisters had that chance to get tested.

'My mum didn’t, but it’s thanks to her we’ve been saved.'

Ms Graham started a course of chemotherapy to kill off the disease and the results were exactly what she was hoping for.

'If my mum hadn’t died of cancer we would never have tested our genes'

She said: 'My bloods showed that I was in remission. It was a fantastic day.'

Ms Graham returned to work cancer-free but still had another preventative operation to endure.

'The only way to prevent getting breast cancer with this gene is to have a bilateral mastectomy,' she said.

'I had already diced with death once, I didn’t want to do it again. 'So on March 14, I went in once more for the mastectomy.

'All six of my sisters were by my side as I went through what I hope will be my last surgery.

'God may have taken my mum, but he left me with six wonderful sisters.

Ms Graham, 58, said: 'If my mum hadn't died of cancer we would never have tested our genes when my sister Jan was diagnosed. It's thanks to my Mum (pictured on her wedding day) that I'm still here'

'I always have six strong, powerful women behind me. Whether one of us has the gene or not we are all in it together.'

Ms Graham is now recovering from her double mastectomy at home with peace of mind.

She said: 'All of the breast tissue they removed came back clear. I was so glad.

'I can put that gene to bed now because I’ve removed all the bits it can get.'

Ms Graham’s two daughters have thankfully not been passed on the gene - but her son Stuart, 38, was one of the unlucky ones.

She said: 'I am not going to let it worry me because I know he will be protected and screened.

'It took my mum and I’m not letting it take any more of us.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
