
Welcoming the announcement of the initial results of Iraq’s Council of Representatives election, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today looked forward to the final tally and subsequent timely formation of a new government.

“The Secretary-General welcomes the announcement of the preliminary results of the Council of Representatives election in Iraq of 30 April 2014,” says a statement issued by the UN chief’s spokesperson on the results, which were released in Iraq earlier today.

“He looks forward to the certification of the final results after all procedures have been completed, including the adjudication of possible appeals,” it said, adding that Mr. Ban urges all political parties to engage constructively and in a timely manner in the process of government formation.

The statement goes on to note the Secretary-General’s concern about the security situation in Anbar province. In that regard, Mr. Ban urges the Iraqi Government to ensure that military operations against terrorism are conducted in accordance with the country’s international and constitutional human rights obligations.

“The Secretary-General condemns the deliberate flooding of the Abu Ghraib area and urges all sides to refrain from actions that result in displacement of populations or cause environmental disasters,” the statement says, reiterating Mr. Ban’s appeal regarding the need to address the humanitarian needs of the hundreds of thousands of people affected by the ongoing fighting in Anbar Province.

Just last week, Nickolay Mladenov, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative and head of the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), expressed his concern about reports of increased armed activities in Fallujah, in Anbar province, and its impact on civilians.

Fighting in Anbar in recent months between Iraqi troops and al-Qaeda-affiliated fighters has displaced hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom are residing in schools, mosques and other public buildings and are in need of various humanitarian items.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
