
KOLKATA: Every time you made a dash for your chilled bedroom in this searing summer, your longing for the cool comfort has done more harm to your health. And if your child has the same habit, make it a point to stop him/her before it takes a toll on his/her health. Termed the partial air-conditioning syndrome, the difference in temperature has been triggering electrolyte imbalance, exhaustion, heat rashes and viral infections across households in the city.

Children aged between four and eight years have been more affected since they have low immunity and they are the ones who move around inside the home most often, according to paediatricians. "Since the difference in temperature between the AC room and the rest of the house is often close to 20 degree, the body fails to adjust. More frequently you fleet in and out of the air-conditioned room, the greater are the chances of your falling ill. Children are especially prone to viral infections. Temperature difference has also been triggering heat rashes," said Shantanu Ray, paediatrician.

Temperature fluctuation is the perfect recipe for a viral attack, according to paediatrician Ashok Mittal. "Viruses are most commonly triggered by temperature difference that is inevitable when one moves from an air-conditioned room to a non-air-conditioned one. This happens most frequently at home. The influenza virus is among those that are precipitated by temperature difference and it has been striking quite frequently this summer. More families are switching on the AC in their bedrooms while the rest of the house remains warm. With the influenza season round the corner, we are probably heading for an epidemic," said Mittal. Kolkata has got 3 lakh AC homes.

Private firm employee Soumya Basu has a split air-conditioner in his bedroom. Since he can't afford a second one, he crams into one bed with his wife and two children. "My children have got used to it, so have we. We don't turn off the AC till we get up," he said. Basu didn't have a problem till his four-year-old younger son got a viral attack last week. "We knew it was the temperature difference that had triggered it. We now switch off the AC at idnight and use the fan instead," Basu added.

This is the right way to enjoy AC comfort, though ideally it should be avoided as far as possible, felt Mittal. "Using khas-khas curtains or air-coolers is a better option for they don't bring the temperature down drastically. But it's difficult to resist the temptation to use the AC when you have one. So, it's advisable to keep the AC temperature at 24-25 degrees. Switch it off at least half-an-hour before you wake up and walk out of the chilled room. This will ensure a smooth transition from AC to non-AC environment," he said.

Viral infections triggering upper respiratory infections have been very common this season. Doctors blame the scorching summer and greater use of AC for this. Allergy attacks, they said, are also being precipitated by the temperature difference. "For children with breathing difficulty or asthma, AC-induced temperature difference could be dangerous. These children are more susceptible to viral attacks. This summer, I have received scores of such cases," said Ray.
