
BRUSSELS, May 19 (KUNA) -- NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen Monday expressed "great concerns "about the security situation in Libya, and questioned the legitimacy of the upcoming presidential elections in Syria.

"I urge all parties to refrain from violence and engage in a constructive national political dialog, leading to free and fair elections based on a new constitution to ensure the fully-fledged legitimacy of the future government of Libya," he told a press conference in Brussels this afternoon.

"You asked me if NATO stands ready to offer assistance to Libya," he said in reply to a question by the Kuwait news agency, KUNA.

"Actually, last year we received a request from the Libyan authorities, a request for NATO assistance to help develop their security sector, we responded positively," said Rasmussen.

"Unfortunately, we've had some difficulties in engaging with the Libyan authorities, also because of instability and lack of security in Libya. But once the Libyan authorities are ready to engage with us in a way that also ensures a safe environment for our assistance, we are ready to assist Libya to develop their security sector as requested," he added.

On Syria, the NATO chief stressed that the only way forward in Syria is to find a political solution to the crisis.

"To the extent that elections that are organized are free, fair, transparent and produce an outcome that is considered a true reflection of the will of the people, I think elections could contribute to a political solution," he said.

"But there are  many ifs, and the great if is whether these elections will be considered legitimate by a majority of the Syrian population. If not, then of course the elections cannot contribute to a political solution," said  Rasmussen.

However, the major portion of his press conference was devoted to the situation in Ukraine and NATO relations with Russia.

"Russia's aggression against Ukraine has posed a challenge to a fundamental principle: the right of sovereign states to choose their own path.  Russia has committed to this precept many times, but we see that President Putin now refuses to uphold this promise," he said.

"We see a completely new security situation in Europe. It is less predictable and more dangerous.  For NATO, this has implications now and for the future," stressed Rasmussen.

He noted that on May 25th, Ukraine will hold presidential elections.

"This is an important opportunity to find a peaceful way forward for a united Ukraine. Any effort to delay or disrupt the elections would be an attempt to deny the Ukrainian people their choice. And a further step back  for efforts to find a genuine political solution to the crisis," he added.

Rasmssen said the 28-member Alliance has reinforced their naval presence from the Baltic to the Black Sea, and deployed troops to participate in training and exercises.

Right now, around 6,000 troops from across NATO are taking part in an exercise in Estonia.
