
. . . . . . .

Photo Credits: Athens NEWS file photo.

Photo Caption: Lawyer Glenn Jones has resigned from the local Public Defenders Office. He’s shown here with a defendant client in a recent hearing.

With a significant increase in cases this past year, the Athens County branch of the Ohio Public Defender's Office already had been planning to ask the Athens County Commissioners for funding for a new position.

Now, the former director of the office, Glenn Jones, has tendered his resignation and the branch has begun efforts to replace him as well.

Current Director Herman Carson was appointed to succeed Jones, taking over April 10. In addition to running the Athens branch, Carson was appointed to direct the OPDO's 10-county program covering southern and southeast Ohio.

Carson said that Jones' letter of resignation was dated last Monday but received early Tuesday morning. He said that Jones did not provide a reason in his letter for the decision to step down.

When contacted Friday, Jones declined to comment, referring questions back to the Athens office.

Carson said Friday that a request to the county commissioners for an additional position at the Athens office did not relate to Jones' decision to resign.

He said the office saw a 500-case increase between 2012 and 2013.

"As a state agency, we are on a fiscal year budget July 1 to June 30," he explained. "At this time every year, with each of the 10 counties that are part of the multi-county branch office, we meet the commissioners with a proposed budget and contract for the upcoming fiscal year."

In Athens County, Carson said the office has approached the commissioners seeking funding for the extra position. He said this meeting was scheduled before the office was aware of Jones' resignation.

"Our proposed budget included Glenn as an attorney, and then we requested to be able to add an entry-level attorney for an assistant public defender," he said.

The commissioners have not yet made a decision on that request, Carson said.

With Jones gone, Carson said the branch intends to replace him but said he doesn't see any further restructuring.

With regard to the cases Jones was handling, Carson said that attorneys in the trial division of the state office will handle some, while the remaining cases will be taken over by the three attorneys remaining in the Athens office at this time.

Ohio Public Defender's Office spokesperson Amy Borror said Friday that the state office also did not receive a reason for Jones' decision.

"Apparently, the letter of resignation was very brief and just stated that he was resigning and gave his last date," she said.

Borror voiced plans to post a notice of employment to hire an attorney to replace Jones at the Athens office. Further, she confirmed the request to the commissioners for an additional position due to the caseload increase. Primarily, the local office would make the hire, she said, while the state office handles paperwork.

Athens County Prosecutor Keller Blackburn said Friday that Jones' resignation should not impact pending cases by any dramatic time frame.

Further, Blackburn praised Jones in an email responding to a request for comment.
