
On Wednesday, 21 May, negotiators from both sides will host meetings with non-governmental organisations, consumer groups, trade unions, professional organisations, business and other civil society organisations to update them on the status of the negotiations and hear their views on the talks for a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) in Washington, D.C. and Arlington, Virginia this week.

EU Chief Negotiator Ignacio Garcia Bercero and US Chief Negotiator Dan Mullaney will hold a closing press conference in Washington, D.C. on Friday, 23 May, which will be live-streamed on EBS .

More information on round 5 of the TTIP negotiations is available online .

The Foreign Affairs Council on Development meets today to exchange views on the preparation of a new post-2015 framework. Ministers will take stock of the ongoing work at UN level and discuss the EU's role in the process.

The Council will also be briefed by the Commission on the implementation of the Agenda for Change, the EU's development policy, as well as on the recently presented tool box for working towards a rights-based approach to EU development cooperation.

In addition, the Council will hold an exchange of views on the role of the private sector in development cooperation, in the wake of a new Commission communication, presented on 13 May. During lunch, ministers will discuss the situation in the Central African Republic and in South Sudan. The Council will also confirm that EU is to resume development cooperation with Madagascar.

Energy Commissioner Oettinger has met Russian Energy Minister Novak today in Berlin in order to discuss issues relating to security of gas supply and transit from Russia via the Ukraine to the EU. The meeting shall prepare the ground for the next trilateral talks between the EU, Russia and Ukraine, which are scheduled for 26 May subject to confirmation by all parties involved. The aim of the trilateral meetings is to ensure continued gas supplies and transit. Concerns about the outstanding debt of Ukraine and the gas price for supplies to Ukraine are discussed in the trilateral format in order to find a solution by the end of May. Moreover, methods to increase transparency and reliability of gas flows and gas storage as well as ways to ensure the modernisation of the Ukrainian gas market and the gas transmission system are on the agenda. It has been confirmed by all sides that gas flows will not be interrupted until the end of May, see STATEMENT from 2 May.

Enter body text here The European Commission has released today a report on Member States' application of EU rules on airport charges - the fees airlines pay to airports for the use of runways and terminals. The report shows that since the introduction of the rules in 2011, larger European airports have become more transparent when taking decisions about these charges. The Directive currently applies to around 75 airports in the European Economic Area.

The employment rate of the population aged 20 to 64 in the EU28 showed a clear pattern during the last decade: it rose steadily from 66.7% in 2002 to 70.3% in 2008, then fell with the financial crisis to 68.9%, and has since continuously decreased to 68.3% in 2013. The Europe 2020 strategy target is to have an employment rate of at least 75% in the EU28 by 2020. For the age group 55 to 64 in the EU28, the pattern is quite different: the employment rate has grown steadily from 38.1% in 2002 to reach 50.1% in 2013.

On 12 May 2014, the European Commission has found amendments to a Spanish scheme allowing to grant tax deductions for cinema and audio-visual productions to be in line with EU state aid rules. The modifications concern a) a reduction of the tax deduction for producers from 20% to 18%; b) an expansion of the deduction's scope to post-production costs (for promotion, publicity and making copies) at a maximum of 40% of production costs; and c) an authorisation of the scheme for 6 years, from 1 January 2014 until 1 January 2020. The Commission concluded, in particular, that the benefit of the scheme is not contingent on spending a certain proportion of the production costs in Spain and therefore complies with the Cinema Communication (see IP/13/1074 ). Moreover, the scheme is in line with the Cinema Communication as regards transparency, the coverage of production costs up to a maximum of 50% and the absence of aid for specific production activities. The original scheme was adopted in 1985, and the modifications were adopted in October 2013. They are effective for the tax years starting from 1 January 2014. The Commission is in the process of assessing modifications to another Spanish film aid scheme, which was notified in 2014. More information the decision will be available on the Commission's competition website, in the public case-register under the case number SA.37516 .

The European Commission has approved under the EU Merger Regulation the acquisition of the automotive electronics business of Johnson Controls, Inc., currently held and controlled by Johnson Controls, Inc. ("JCI") of the US, by Visteon Corporation ("Visteon") also of the US. Visteon supplies climate, electronics and interiors systems, modules and components to automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). JCI is active in technology and industrial operations in building efficiency, automotive supply and power solutions. The automotive electronics business of JCI provides driver information and body electronics products to automotive OEMs. The parties' activities overlap in the manufacture and supply of driver information and body electronics to automotive OEMs for light vehicles and, in particular, instrument clusters, information displays and connectivity systems, as well as body controllers and access control systems. The Commission concluded that the proposed concentration would not raise competition concerns, because the overlaps were limited, a number of strong players would remain in the market after the merger and the parties face strong countervailing buyer power. The transaction was examined under the normal merger review procedure. More information is available on the Commission's competition website, in the public case register under the case number M.7182 .

The European Commission has granted clearance under the EU Merger Regulation to the acquisition of joint control over Estro of the Netherlands by KKR & Co., L.P. and H.I.G. Capital, two investments firms of the US. Estro provides child day care services in the Netherlands. The Commission concluded that the transaction would not raise competition concerns, in particular because the parties' activities do not overlap. The operation was examined under the simplified merger review procedure. More information is available on the Commission's competition website in the public case register under the case number M.7256 .

Tomorrow, Vice-President Siim Kallas visits Kiev for a series of meetings with the Ukrainian authorities, including the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister. Discussions will focus on the EU's Macro-Financial Assistance to Ukraine, of which a first disbursement worth €100 million will take place tomorrow. This assistance, worth €1.6 billion overall, will be paid once Ukraine has completed the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding. It is designed to help Ukraine cover part of its urgent external financing needs, reducing the economy's short-term balance of payments and fiscal vulnerabilities. A press point is expected to be held in the early afternoon, which will be made available on EbS.
