
NURSES HONOURED: Award winners Laura Brown, Tricia Rowan, Christianne Rival, Mavis Midgley, director of nursing Nicola Young and Casey Porter celebrated International Nurses Day with a special morning tea on Monday, May 6.

PROSERPINE Hospital cleaned up at the annual Mackay Hospital and Health Service awards, with five of the nine district awards being presented to local nursing staff.

A morning tea was held to honour the five award winners and celebrate International Nurses Day on Monday, May 6.

Tricia Rowan was the overall district winner of the 2014 Nurse Specialty Award and a cool $250 cash prize.

The award recognised a nurse who consistently demonstrates an advanced level of knowledge, innovative care and dedication in a specialised area.

Sharon Eaton, Laura Brown, Christianne Rival and Casey Porter also achieved awards for their outstanding contributions to the local community.

Director of Nursing Nicola Young said it was an amazing achievement to have so many local nurses recognised for their efforts.

"Every day we have staff doing special things but this is the one day where our nurses can be recognised at a district level," she said.

Another highlight of the morning tea was the presentation of the perpetual Peta Watson Memorial Award to Mavis Midgley, who has worked at Proserpine Hospital for more than 40 years.

Ms Midgley wiped the tears from her eyes as she proudly accepted the award, saying it was a total surprise.

The annual award is presented to a nurse who continually provides an exceptional level of care, compassion and exhibits the personal qualities nurses are best known for in the local community.

The award was created in loving memory of Proserpine Hospital nurse Peta Watson who passed away in 2010.

All in attendance also received personal cards, hand-written by Ms Young and nurse unit manager Lisa Milne, thanking staff for their outstanding contribution to Proserpine Hospital.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© The Mackay Printing and Publishing Company Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
