
Leonard Barstein, 28, filed the lawsuit to argue that he broke his ankle and tore a ligament when he was violently thrown off the mechanical bull at Johnny Utah's. According to the lawsuit, the bar was negligent because it failed to put up signs and barricades to warn people about the danger and had no safeguards and padding to break falls.

Joyce, Allison, NYDN Freelance Leonard Barstein is suing Johnny Utah's restaurant in Midtown because he says he was injured when he was tossed off this mechanical bull.

A Manhattan hospital worker is the latest victim of a Midtown bar’s raging bull.

Sleep technician Leonard Barstein, 28, was at Johnny Utah’s on Super Bowl Sunday with his girlfriend and other pals when he decided to take a couple of spins on its infamous mechanical bull.

He made it through his first Feb. 2 ride on the fiercest bull on W. 51st Street unscathed, but the mechanical monster got the best of him on the second go around.

“The first time I got up and I was fine but the second time I landed awkwardly,” the Brighton Beach man told the Daily News.

Courtesy of  Leonard Barstein Leonard Barstein said his first ride was smooth sailing, but was bested on the second ride.

He was thrown to the ground, where he says he broke his ankle and tore a ligament.

He went to the hospital where he works, New York Presbyterian/Weill-Cornell Medical Center, to get checked out.

Two days later he had surgery and a metal plate was inserted into his left ankle, he said.

Joyce, Allison, NYDN Freelance Records show that at least three other people have sued the bar over bull injuries.

Barstein said he wasn't drinking at Johnny Utah's, but said he had a couple of beers at another joint beforehand.

The bar and restaurant, which called itself the “Home of NYC"s Original Mechanical Bull” was negligent because it failed to “place signs, barricades warnings and/or other deceives to appraise persons of the danger” and because it did not have “proper safeguards and padding to break falls,” the suit says.

“This is more risk than he assumed,” said Barstein’s lawyer, Alex Karasik.

Barstein is seeking unspecified damages.

A Johnny Utah's employee who wouldn't give his name declined to comment when reached by phone Monday.

At least three other people have sued the bar over bull injuries, records show.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
