
His lawyer described it as “a piece of shit, dogshit”.

DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN is to file suit for defamation over a US movie inspired by the sex scandal that brought down the former IMF chief, his lawyer confirmed today.

Abel Ferrara’s Welcome to New York stars Gerard Depardieu as a man called Georges Devereaux with striking similarities to “DSK” – whose alleged 2011 sexual assault on a New York hotel maid shook the world.

Speaking on Europe 1 radio, Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer Jean Veil said his client would in the coming days “file suit for defamation over the accusations of rape and the insinuations made all throughout the movie”.

He said Strauss-Kahn has been cleared of all charges in the case, and was “sickened and frightened by this film”, which premiered at the Cannes film festival on Saturday.

Veil described the film as “a piece of shit, dogshit”, and echoed a charge by Strauss-Kahn’s ex-wife Anne Sinclair that aspects of it were “anti-Semitic”.

The start of Ferrara’s film states that it is inspired by a court case but it has been widely seen as a fictionalised account of the downfall of DSK.

Strauss-Kahn was arrested in May 2011 in New York and forced to live under house arrest for weeks after posting $1 million bail.

Criminal charges were eventually dropped and Strauss-Kahn settled a civil suit brought by the maid by paying her undisclosed damages, which reportedly exceeded $1.5 million.

Sinclair has accused the movie of portraying her in an anti-Jewish way, through the character of Devereaux’s wife Simone played by Jacqueline Bisset.

In the film, Simone is a rich woman who inherited a fortune amassed during World War II and helps the Israeli state financially.

“My grandfather (famous art dealer Paul Rosenberg) had to escape from the Nazis and was stripped of his French nationality by the Vichy government,” Sinclair said added, referring to the wartime French regime that collaborated with the Germans.

Sinclair said however she would not resort to legal action over what she described as “dirt”.

Ferrara refuted the allegations on Sunday, telling AFP he is not “anti-Semitic”.

“I hope not. I was brought up by Jewish women,” he said.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Dominique Strauss-Kahn is not happy with a film based on his sex scandal”.

Feedback on “Dominique Strauss-Kahn is not happy with a film based on his sex scandal”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
