
RT’s “Truthseeker” rips the lid off false flags!

They’d have to be crazy not to.

Iran – the most important target of the neocon 9/11 plan to destroy seven countries in five years – has fought back by allowing its international media outlets to cover false flag issues, including the 9/11 deception . That’s why the US-NATO-Israeli oligarchy has removed Press TV and other Iran-based outlets from North American and European satellites.

Now Russia Today (RT) is joining Press TV with hard-hitting coverage of false flags and 9/11. Daniel Bushell of the TruthSeeker program has led the way with a series of terrific shows devoted to this critically important topic.

The Western power elite is terrified by the prospect of big professional operations like RT and Press TV going all-out to expose the 9/11 and false flag issues. They are following Obama’s information czar Cass Sunstein’s advice to “ disable the purveyors of conspiracy theories ” – by not only knocking Press TV off satellites, but also using the NSA to censor the internet.

Last September, the TruthSeeker episode 9/11 and Operation Gladio was going viral and heading for the tens or even hundreds of millions of views – when suddenly the NSA, or someone with similar capabilities, “disappeared” the show from search engines including the Youtube search engine that generates most views. When people tried to email the url of 9/11 and Operation Gladio to their friends, they found that their emails simply disappeared into the cyberspace equivalent of a black hole.

Now Daniel Bushell and the Truthseeker team have just broadcast an even more hard-hitting, in-your-face false flag exposé!

0 Reads,                        Filed under 9/11 , Editor .      You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 .           Both comments and pings are currently closed.

To post, we ask that you login using Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, or Hotmail in the box below.

Don't have a social network account? Register and Login direct with VT and post.

Dr Webster G.Tarpley has described the close correlation between ‘military-exercise’ clusters and false flag events – on 9-11 he has totted up SEVENTY-FIVE exercises and simulations, making cover for attacks, as diversions, and removing unsuspecting personnel so that moles could operate their treason.

By monitoring maneuvers, false flags can be predicted and media and resistance networks activated.

I’ve been saying for years that Putin is a fool if he doesn’t at least try to make 9/11 an international issue (and that applies to the the Chinese leadership too).

If 9/11 was a false-flag attack by Jews and their Goy puppets in high places in the “U.S. government” (as has been painfully obvious for a long time), then the implications for the whole world are ominous.

The thing is, 9/11 didn’t happen in a vacuum. In addition to the robust historical record of “government” treachery, we had the PNAC documents, which outlined – for the whole world to see – how the Jews planned to take advantage of the next “Pearl Harbor” to use government power to beat the world into submission.

We also had NATO expansion, the encirclement of Russia and China, aggression against Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Pakistan, Yemen, etc., NSA spying,  and the construction of an anti-missile system.

Now that the barbarians are at the gates, it may be too late to do what should have been done years ago. But one thing is certain; if there had been some kind of a massive terrorist attack inside Russia, the Jews would be blaming the Russian government and screaming for an international investigation.

whats he saving this ace card for,WW3? by the time WW3 gets underway nobody’s gonna even care at that point..

I believe B.R.I.C.S. Nations may fully grasp 9/11 Truth is Washington’s worst fear.  Unlike our U.S. leaders(sic), however, those leaders are responsible adults.  Therefore they(BRICS) may be concerned too few responsible US Citizens are developing the contingency government U.S.A will need when Washington’s betrayal is finally unmasked.  I believe they’ve been waiting on us(US Cit.).  We need to form a contingency government – now.

http //beforeitsnews.com/obama/2014/05/army-ranger-retires-because-of-obama-tells-everything-about-americas-future-video-2463322.html   (20 minutes in is must see).

Charlotte NC Bill : So human beings suck and lack basic morals the world over...how surprising..

Yes, Very Happy!
