
An interdepartmental commission is tasked with getting to the bottom of things and is expected to produce results by mid-June, Ekspress-AM4R failure to cost 19 billion rubles, Switzerland votes no on world's highest minimum wage, Sanctions against Venezuela could backfire, UN to increase aid across Syria, Kiev wants Moscow's assistance to stabilize border. These issues in Voice of Russia's daily Press Review.

Moskovskiy Komsomolets reports that Switzerland has voted 'no' in a referendum which could have raised the bar for minimum wage to a worldwide maximum. The proposal was to set the minimum wage at 22 Swiss francs (a little under $25) an hour. Thus the minimum full time job salary would be 4000 francs, or $4500, the article notes. The initiators of the referendum claimed the move was necessary in order for the population to maintain an adequate quality of life. However, the opponents, which were proven to be the majority, said that this would increase production costs on a national scale and eventually lead to a surge in unemployment, especially among the younger generation of Swiss citizens. Only one in four of those who voted supported the drastic wage raise. According to the newspaper the majority of those who voted against represented small and medium businesses. Labor unions were the ones who came up with the idea – it was mainly targeting large cities, as according to the wage raise supporters, high cost of living means comfortable life in Switzerland requires at least 4,000 francs per month.

Citing a recent surge in organized crime along Ukrane's border with Russia, Kiev proposed to Moscow that the two countries join forces in order to stabilize the situation, The Moscow Times reports. The daily quotes a source from Ukraine's Foreign Ministry: due to a significant deterioration of the situation on the Ukraine-Russia border, which has been marked by an intensification of cross-border activities carried out by organized crime groups, [Ukraine's] Foreign Ministry has sent a note to its counterpart in Russia.” Increased criminal activity along the border poses a threat both to nearby civilians and to Ukrainian border guards, the note said. Any refusal by Russia to participate in a joint operation would be viewed as a violation of the terms of bilateral agreements between the two nations, the Foreign Ministry added, without specifying which bilateral agreements specifically were being referred to.

All rights reserved.
