
"Only One Tiger on the Mountain."

As the West’s assault on Ukraine gets ever bloodier, the "news" on    National Public Radio (NPR) is teeming with anti-Russian propaganda, interspersed    with the usual pieces declaiming on one’s senior prom and other matters of equal    import. All in all it is a pretty dismal substitute for news and analysis.

But even at the "Diane Rehm Show," very near the bottom of the dung    heap that is NPR, a few scraps of truth can be scavenged on occasion – usually    uncovered by a caller’s question. Such was the case on March 27 when Rehm’s    guests were Richard    Haass , president of the Council on Foreign Relations, before which he was    Director of Policy Planning at the Bush/Powell State Department, and Ian    Brzezinski, son of Zbig.

In this case the caller raised an oft-asked question since Assistant Secretary    of State, Victoria Nuland put the final touches on the $5 billion plan to install    a fascist-ridden government in Ukraine. The caller asked: Rather than antagonize    Russia with the relentless advance of NATO, why not incorporate Russia into    the European "security structure" and into NATO itself? Before Hass’s    answer, a little history. NATO was formed in 1949. In 1954, the year after Stalin’s    death, the USSR proposed that it join NATO as part of a mechanism to preserve    peace in Europe. By that time the denazification campaign in Germany had been    halted and the German intelligence services, chock full of "ex"-Nazis    were up and running. West Germany was on its way to being incorporated into    NATO, and the Soviets were alarmed. NATO turned down its request. In 1955, the    Warsaw Pact was formed in response.

REHM: "And welcome back as we talk about what’s happening in Russia, in    Crimea and possibly in Ukraine, as well as the president’s recent trip to Europe.    Let’s open the phones now first to Michael in Kingston, R.I. Hi, you’re on the    air. Go right ahead."

HAASS: "Look, it’s a great question. The issue did come up at various    times. I, at one point, to be honest, advocated it. I wrote a memo when    I was the head of policy planning –  so this was not under H.W. Bush, but    George W. Bush, the 43rd president  –  suggesting that this was something that    we could (do) for two reasons."

"One is I didn’t think it would really impair the functioning of NATO,    as we just discussed. I think NATO had already become, if you will, what I described    as an a la carte relationship. So it wasn’t all or nothing. Coalitions of the    willing had increasingly become the norm. And, second of all, I thought it would    take some of the sting out of NATO enlargement and it would remove the argument    that the postwar order was somehow built against Russia. So it would take away    the kind of humiliation or rant we heard the other day from France and Putin."

HAASS: "Those who doubted the wisdom of it, besides the possibility that    Russia might not accept, which was a side argument, worried that it would    impair the continuing military effectiveness of NATO, that Russia, essentially    as an insider, would become obstructive and would work against NATO’s continuing    viability."

Let us stop right there and consider Hass’s reply. What does it mean to say    that NATO would not have continuing "viability"? Certainly, with    Russia inside, it would be better as an instrument of peace in Europe. But it    would be useless as an instrument for the U.S. to dominate Europe. Refusal    of membership to Russia is simply another way of saying that NATO is not a means    to ensure peace in Europe. In NATO there is to be "Only one tiger on the    mountain," as the Chinese saying has it, and that tiger is the US No other    tigers need apply.

REHM: "Ian, do you think it would have been a good idea?"

BRZEZINSKI: "No. I would have argued against at that point. But I think    the general prospect of saying that one day one could consider Russia being    part of NATO is something you wouldn’t want to take off the table. You know,    to be a NATO member, you have to meet standards of democracy. You have to    demonstrate a consistency of a shared-world view, shared interests. You    have to demonstrate those commitments to those common interests."

"And if there’s a point in time  –  which I think will be quite far down    the road  –  that Russia meets that (sic) criteria, then it’s something we should    address. But one would also want to think carefully about how it would affect    the balance of power within NATO. Because right now you have an alliance really    that features one predominate power and then a group of smaller powers that    enables a certain amount of cohesion that might be undermined if you had two    great powers sitting at the table."

What about Germany as a counterweight to the US? Germany, however, is not really    a sovereign nation; it is occupied by tens of thousands of US troops, and the    German NATO forces are under US command. Whereas the NATO Secretary General    can be a citizen of any NATO country, the Supreme Commander, that is the number    one military commander, has always been an American. So the German NATO    forces answer to an American commander. And the US keeps a watchful eye on Germany    in other ways, as the latest scandal of NSA’s spying on Germans in general and    Angela Merkel in particular.

NATO’s goal remains what it was from the beginning, a mechanism to “to keep    the Russians out, the Americans in, and the Germans down," as the first    NATO Secretary General, Lord Ismay, stated in 1949. The idea that the US keeps    troops in Germany, and in Japan for that matter, out of excessive generosity    to help in their "defense" is only for us rubes. It is time to dissolve    NATO and let Russia and the rest of the European nations devise their own mechanisms    for preserving peace on the Continent in a nuclear age.

"HAASS: "Those who doubted the wisdom of it, besides the possibility that Russia might not accept, which was a side argument, worried that it would impair the continuing military effectiveness of NATO, that Russia, essentially as an insider, would become obstructive and would work against NATO’s continuing viability.""

That's only true if Russia has always been the target/enemy of NATO.  After all, if NATO wants to conduct military operations against Timbuktu, then having Russia as an 'insider' does nothing to harm NATO's 'viability'.  Thus, the statement clearly implies that Russia has always been regarded as a target/enemy consistently across the decades after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Strictly speaking, Russia and China should form a defensive alliance against NATO.

Everything you write here is correctt from my Point of view!

of WW3 even more frightening.
