
ZACAPA, Guatemala – The sounds of the construction site rang out over the small community. Soldiers in their hard hats scurried around the site, each on a specific mission. Stir the mortar. Lay the blocks. Man the saw. As the day progressed, the group could contend with a pig or a stray dog that wandered onto the site. Throughout all of the commotion, a group of locals watched from the porch of a small building that lies on the same land as the construction site.

This building providing refuge from the Central American sun to the locals served as the medical facility for not only the community of Las Carretas, but also five communities that surround it. The site on which the new building was being erected is where the first medical facility once stood.

“It’s kind of like winning the lottery or getting something from Santa,” chuckled Gladys Haydee Sanchez Diaz, the director of the medical facility in Las Carretas, about her site being chosen for Beyond the Horizon 2014 – Guatemala. Beyond the Horizon is an operation in which the United States partners with Central and South America and the Caribbean to bring medical, dental and engineering assistance to the locals, and is providing the materials and construction for the new facility.

The first clinic was built in 1978, reflected Sanchez Diaz. In 1996, the American humanitarian group CARE donated the material for this building to be built. The first facility had become so broken down and unmanageable that she was informed that it must be knocked down. The entire community came together to help tear down the building, Sanchez Diaz said.

Sanchez Diaz was then informed that Las Carretas was chosen for a Beyond the Horizon project. The new clinic has more space to allow for more patients to be seen and provides better privacy to the patients that she will see. It is a general treatment facility and will care for anyone, including children, but Sanchez Diaz specializes in women’s health. With the new privacy, we can better care for patients with cervical cancer, which is very extensive in the area, she stated. The Las Carretas medical facility treats between 30 and 40 people a day.

Sanchez Diaz has been with the facility since it opened in 1978. She attended the Institute of Quiloa where she obtained her nursing degree. She receives help from technicians at times, but the facility and all of the equipment, including additional assistance for Sanchez Diaz, are state funded. This means the decision to provide additional help to Sanchez Diaz is made on the state level.

Sanchez Diaz commented that she is extremely happy and very proud her facility was chosen for the assistance. She remarked that she is proud she can help the people around her.

Lidia Estela Suchite Olivia de Cordón donated the land on which the facilities convene. She was born in Las Carretas and all of her family lives in the small community, including her sons, which are all teachers there.

This work, Like winning the lottery, by PFC Haley Haile , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
