
A Facebook picture saved the life of a four-year-old girl from Northampton after her photo revealed she had eye cancer.

Gracie Hyland, a pupil at Bridgewater Primary School, was two in 2011 when a friend saw the image and noticed a white glow in her left eye.

Her parents Jodine and Russell Hyland, of Abington Vale, took her to the doctor where their worst fears were confirmed - Gracie had retinoblastoma.

The family was then dealt with another blow when the doctor revealed Gracie’s eye was full of the tumour.

She had to undergo an emergency operation at Birmingham Children’s Hospital a week later to remove the eye. The operation was successful.

Since then Gracie has lived ‘a charmed life’ and doesn’t let being blind in her left eye ‘hinder her in any way’.

“When we found out Gracie had eye cancer, heartbreaking didn’t even cover it,” Mrs Hyland said.

“I had no idea what the picture meant. When the doctor confirmed her cancer I just felt sick, I couldn’t understand how a two-year-old could have cancer at all, I just felt a sense of despair.

“I was asking ‘would I keep my daughter?’, ‘what will her life be like?’.

“It really is life destroying in that moment, but then you look at your toddler and see the innocence and hope and happiness in her face, and so we pulled ourselves together and decided not to be victims but survivors and that’s how we dealt with everything since - positivity and optimism.

“This is why Gracie has recovered so well, she’s never seen herself as poorly she knows that she’s unique and special.

“The whole situation made me very grateful for life and made me realise how much we take it for granted.

The family were supported by Childhood Eye Cancer Trust (CHECT), one of the only charities that helps children with eye cancer and their families.

Mr and Mrs Hyland, who also have a two-year-old daughter named Poppy, have released a short film to raise awareness of the condition and CHECT, which you can watch above.

Every six months Gracie has to see an eye specialist for a new plastic eye, which they then colour-match with her real eye.

Mrs Hyland added: “She doesn’t like her twice yearly appointments but with age she’s getting braver.”!
