
At the University of Texas at Austin, total executive compensation awarded to executives between 2006 and 2012, including President William Powers, Jr., pictured, was $4.7 million, with the yearly executive compensation during that time averaging $716,444, according to a report from the Institute for Policy Studies.

The report, "The One Percent at State U: How University Presidents Profit from Rising Student Debt and Low-Wage Faculty Labor," examines the student loan debt accrued by students at the 25 schools in the country that have the the highest executive pay.

The authors found that students at schools with the highest executive pay had higher debt loads after graduation. The high exec-pay schools also saw administrative spending exceeding academic spending and have increased the use of part-time adjunct faculty by more than twice the national average rate since 2008. Those same schools also saw the number of full-time faculty decline.

At UT, total executive compensation awarded to executives of the main campus between 2006 and 2012 reached $4.7 million, with the annual executive compensation during that time averaging $716,444, according to the report. That's good enough to rank UT at No. 10 on the report's list of public universities with the highest executive pay. The report covers the period of time since William Powers, Jr. took over the role of UT president in 2006 from Larry Faulkner .

Ohio State University commands the top spot on the report's list, with total compensation to its top executives between 2006 and 2012 coming in at a staggering $10.2 million, and an average annual compensation of $1.5 million.

Michael Theis is the Austin Business Journal's digital editor.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
