
The media and telecommunications industries, while growing on a massive scale, are actually getting smaller. The most recent catalyst is the announcement of a monumental acquisition over the weekend.

Proving once again that growth-oriented behemoths believe it is easier to buy than to build, AT&T T, -0.07%  agreed to acquire DirecTV DTV, -0.08% in an equity deal valued at $48.5 billion. AT&T is paying $95 a share, with $66.50 represented by its own shares and $28.50 in cash. Including net debt, the transaction values the biggest satellite-TV provider in the U.S. at $67.1 billion.

Clearly, federal regulators have their work cut out for them, with another decision about a mega-deal on the horizon. Remember, initially, consumer groups and others questioned whether consumers’ best interests would be served by having Comcast gobble up its biggest rival, Time Warner Cable.

The naysayers fretted that individuals’ stratospheric cable bills might rise even higher as services shrank. They suggested that a company with an apparent monopoly might not be as motivated to provide rudimentary services to its bill payers. The average bill for cable hovers at around $90 a month and will hit $200 a month in 2020 , according to The NPD Group.

If both deals — AT&T-DirecTV and Comcast-Time Warner — are ultimately approved, then conquering parties AT&T and Comcast would command about two-thirds of the American pay-TV market.

The public-interest organization Free Press, which opposes the Comcast-Time Warner deal, said Sunday that it’s not in favor of the AT&T and DirecTV amalgamation.

As more consumers favor getting their content online, with streaming becoming the nexus, media and telecom companies are scrambling to find ways to attract and keep bill payers’ eyeballs in place.

In the hunger to achieve growth, one point is clear: Some of the nation’s most prominent media and telecommunications companies have concluded that shelling out tens of billions of dollars means good business in these global sweepstakes.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
