
Scandal: Documents show the president was told by Veterans Administration officials during his transition briefings that he shouldn't trust the wait time and treatment scheduling data being reported by local VA centers.

On April 9, 2009, with his Secretary of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Eric Shinseki by his side, President Obama said, "As long as I'm commander in chief, I promise that we will work tirelessly to meet that mission and make sure that all those who wear this nation's uniform, know this when you come home to America, America will be there for you."

True, he has significantly increased VA funding on his watch. This upcoming fiscal year Obama requested a 3% boost for the Veterans Affairs budget. Obama's fiscal 2015 budget request points out he has increased the VA discretionary budget by 35.2% since 2009.

The question amid this scandal is just how this taxpayer money was spent.

"I am amazed this (scandal) is still happening, given the big increase in resources that the department has received," says Phillip Carter of the Center for a New American Security.

Maybe not so amazing when you consider that according to records reviewed by the Washington Free Beacon, the VA has spent $489 million to upgrade conference rooms, buy drapes and purchase office furniture during the past 4-1/2 years.

Just months before President Obama made his pledge to veterans, VA officials warned the Obama-Biden transition team not to trust the wait-time data that VA hospitals were reporting.

They said that bureaucrats might be cooking the books to make performance look better than it was and to make bonuses likelier, according to briefing obtained by the Washington Times through the Freedom of Information Act.

"This is not only a data integrity issue in which (Veterans Health Administration) reports unreliable performance data; it affects quality of care by delaying — and potentially denying — deserving veterans timely care," the officials wrote in materials used to brief the incoming commander in chief.

The question of what Obama and Shinseki knew and when they knew it has been answered.

Yet despite calls from two prominent veterans groups, the American Legion and Concerned Veterans for America, for Shinseki to resign or be fired, Obama has given the retired Army general a thumbs up.

"The president remains confident in Secretary Shinseki's ability to lead the department and to take appropriate action based on the (inspector general's) findings," said White House spokesman Shin Inouye last week.

     Investors.com.

     for free membership on Investors.com.

Use IBD's EPS Ratings to weed out weak financial performers.

© 2014 MarketSmith, Incorporated . Charts provided by MarketSmith are used by IBD under license agreement. MarketSmith is a registered trademark of MarketSmith, Incorporated.
