
Lusaka - Plans by neighbours, Zambia and Zimbabwe, to jointly construct a US$5-billion Batoka hydro power plant is in sight, with the latter settling the remaining debt contracted during the federation of the two countries.

Zimbabwe, had incurred the more than US$70 million debt, accrued with interest, as part of the shared cost of the Kariba Dam construction and associated infrastructure.

CAPCO was running the Kariba power project for the two countries but was disbanded in 1987.

Earlier, Zimbabwe had agreed to settle the debt in full but instead opted to pay in instalments. And Zambia seeks to use that money to contribute towards the shared cost of building the 1 800 megawatt hydro power station.

This would in turn increase energy efficiency for the two neighbours, all grappling to drive their industries to increased growth.

The Southern Times learnt that, Zimbabwe had earlier remitted US$40m with the remainder to be settled at a later stage, which according to Zambia’s energy and water development minister, Christopher Yaluma, has now been settled in full less interest.

According to Minister Yaluma, Zimbabwe, realising its obligation to dismantle the debt to its neighbour, has paid Zambia the balance of US$30m owed in principal debt accrued through the acquisition of power generation company.

Zimbabwe initially owed Zambia US$70m after acquiring power generation assets when CAPCO was dissolved to form the Zambezi River Authority (ZRA).

Minister Yaluma stated that the two countries have agreed that the debt be settled in instalments by not later than April 30, 2014.

However, Zimbabwe has accumulated amounting to US$114 million, which the two Governments reached a mutual agreement that this should be settled through a devised settlement plan.

“The government of Zimbabwe has settled the remaining US$30 million, completing the US$70 million (principal) owed to Zambia after the dissolution of CAPCO, which was reconstituted as the Zambezi River Authority,” Minister Yaluma added.

Zimbabwe settle the debt through that its power utility ZESA Holdings, which is wholly owned by the government.

According to reports, Zambia and Zimbabwe have started preliminary work on the project, which will have an estimated cost of US$2.5b to be financed on a cost-sharing basis.

The hydro power plant is expected to be built and operated by a private company before transferring ownership to the two states.

Zimbabwe media cites ZESA Chief Executive Officer, Elijah Chifamba, as saying the settlement of the debt shows commitment by the two neighbours to undertake a major project.

"Zambia needed to see first that we were committed to settling that debt and to demonstrate that we are bona fide partners before they could actually enter into the Batoka project. Because we have done so, that has unlocked the project," he says.

Zimbabwe is facing severe power shortages that have led to frequent electricity outages.

Businesses and companies, particularly those in the mining and manufacturing sectors, have said that they are incurring huge costs in powering up operations through high voltage diesel generators.

Zimbabwe presently generates 1 000 MW, which experts say is only half of the power that the country requires.

Initial projections by developers indicated that the construction of the dam that will facilitate the setting up of Batoka Gorge hydroelectric power stations for Zambia and Zimbabwe is expected to start this year after the new Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and social impact assessments are concluded.

The estimated cost for the 1 600 Megawatts (MW) power projects was initially estimated between US$2.5b and US$ 3b but the rising costs of equipment and other related costs may trigger an increase to US$5-6b, according to analysts.

Batoka Gorge hydroelectric power stations would be located about 54km downstream from Victoria Falls extending across the international boundary of Zambia and Zimbabwe.

There will be an 800 MW power plant on the Zambian side and another 800 MW on the Zimbabwean side at Batoka Gorge.

Zambezi River Authority (ZRA) Public Relations and Communications manager, Elizabeth Karonga, said the desire of the two countries was to put up a dam and kick-start the power projects by next year after the new EIA and social impact assessments were concluded.

Recently, ZRA was evaluating the bids which were submitted after February 2012 when the governments of Zambia and Zimbabwe approved and signed the power agreement project, said Karonga when he led a media tour of the Batoka Gorge site on the Zimbabwean site.

“Previous EIAs were done in 1993 but these studies have been updated and we are still evaluating the new bidders. Preliminary assessments have been done to facilitate the actual construction of a Dam for Batoka Gorge power stations,” she said.

So far, access roads to the Zimbabwean side and Zambian side of the gorge have been upgraded, she added.

“We are happy to note that there will be no need for resettling people like the case was during the construction of Kariba Dam. All the previous EIAs done so far are favourable as there will be very little disturbances to surrounding communities,” she said.

Zambezi River Authority hydrology technician, Samuel Mwale, said the Batoka Dam would be about 181 metres high, which is higher than Kariba Dam although it would be smaller in size compared to Kariba.

Mwale said the 1 600 MW of power to be generated would alleviate the power shortages being experienced in Zambia and Zimbabwe.

Zambia seeks to rise the power generation by 39 percent by next year to meet the increased demand for energy from both mines and other related Industries.

In Zambia, a number of hydropower projects are being currently developed such as Kafue Gorge lower (750 MW), Kariba North Extension (360 MW) and Itezhi-Tezhi (120) to meet the growing national and regional demand.

Zimbabwe, too, is facing energy demand and supply gap, which is rapidly increasing due to increased consumption in all sectors of the economy, in particular, mining and industrial sectors. The two countries therefore seek a viable and reliable and also uninterrupted supply of energy to be secured. Zimbabwe energy industry is among the fastest growing energy industries in Africa, research says.
