
A cove in Lake Tahoe will not be named for American writer Mark Twain, after the Washoe Tribe complained the caucasian author was prejudiced against Native Americans.

"Samuel Clemens had racist views on the native people of this country and has captured those views in his literature," wrote Darrel Cruz, head of the Washoe Tribe cultural resource department, in a letter to the Nevada State Board on Geographic Affairs. "Therefore, we cannot support the notion of giving a place name in Lake Tahoe to Samuel Clemens."

Twain, whose real name was Samuel Clemens, objected to naming the lake "Tahoe," which comes from the Washoe word for lake.

"People say that Tahoe means 'Silver Lake' -- 'Limpid Water' -- 'Falling Leaf,'' Twain is credited as saying. "Bosh! It means grasshopper soup, the favorite dish of the digger tribe -- and of the Pi-utes as well." The word "digger" is considered a racial slur by Native Americans.

Board member Robert Stewart, who first introduced the plan to name the cove for Mark Twain, fully supports tabling his initial efforts.

This content is published through a licensing agreement with Acquire Media using its NewsEdge technology.

If the cove in question is about 12 feet deep, then the name is justified. “Mark Twain” is simply the name Clemens chose as a pen name. It is in fact a riverboat term meaning two fathoms (or 12 feet) in depth.

“Marks” were knots on a weighted rope line. On Mississippi river boats, this line would be tossed overboard to determine the river depth. The knots were 6 feet apart, thus if the rope sank to the second knot, the depth was called out as “mark twain”.

There are more freakin’ crybabies in this country.  Let’s sign them up for the Pampers Pack-A-Month Club as well as a a Kleenex Box on monthly auto-ship.

This was once considered the greatest nation on Earth—did it ever take a plunge.

It would appear that any word ending with “igger” offends somebody.

That’s what I “figger(ed)”.

Wait a minute, if you name anything after an indian tribe (i.e. Redskins) you’re setting your *** up for trouble with the PC Police et al.

I want to go back to the way it used to be, you know, when a heart was a heart.

Seems like too many people have nothing more important to do then be offended by something.

The name Washoe is offensive.  They should be renamed Soggy Sneakers.

Political correctness is just another name for cultural Marxism. Want to destroy a nation’s heritage? OK, just start nit picking every racial, religious, and political group.

We can please some of the people all of the time, all of the people some of the time, but we can’t please all the people all the time so quit trying.  Do what’s appropriate and allow those who disagree to disagree but let it stop there.  In the day that we live in, someone is always going to be offended. We are all spoiled rotten.

PC *****!  Period.

Judging people of the past by todays standards is crazy.  Get a life.

I grew up with, Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will never hurt me. What a sissy a__ country we’ve turned into.

Now, it seems, the left isn’t content with annoying the heck out of us in the present, but political correctness has become retroactive.  You cannot take someone out of the time and place they lived in the past and try to apply modern conventions to them after they are dead.  My grandparents called African Americans “colored people,” which I’m sure would be considered very bigoted now, but at the time, that was a polite term as opposed to other degrading terms.  My grandparents were kind and loving to everyone they would be mortified that people today would call them racists.  People who do stuff like this are trying to alter history to fit in with their sense of righteous indignation.  It’s like suing a the present-day family of a doctor from 100 years ago because he didn’t to a heart transplant on your great-grandpa.  This makes no more sense then that would.

Of course, we still have the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.  So, the term hasn’t completely gone away.

For the love of Pete, when are we going to start being concerned about things that matter?  I am fat.  I am old.  I am tired, REALLY tired of the **** out there but if I am offended, big deal.  Is that going to stop people from saying or thinking that I am old and/or fat?  NO.  So who really cares?  If I wish to be above standard today, then I need to make changes enough that make me outstanding in my time frame.  I can’t change the past and would look mighty stupid trying.  Plus the real kicker is that I am also white/honky or whatever, AND a Christian!  Now ain’t that a real mind blower!  But I can and will live my life as I think I should and that means not intentionally hurting anyone.  I am not responsible for my ancestors or their actions any more so than todays whatever they wish to call themselves, have received the brunt.  There are more programs and freebies for the “minorities” than we could imagine.  So they should probably get comfy just being a minority instead of losing all the handouts.  But guess the whining actually continues to remind the rest of us that they are “still hurting”.  How convenient!

We cannot go back and re-write the history, attitudes and mores of the past as hard as the LWL try.  We cannot correct or control the attitudes of people who lived though the Indian wars against the Whites, and vice versa, to make their perception of that era the “touchy,feelly, we-love-the-world, attitude being promoted today. There were bad Indians and bad white people who promoted the hatred of each other throughout American history.  Re-writing it now or condeming those who lived through it is not going to change what was.  Give it up LWL (that’s Left Wing Loonies) go buy someone a Coke and see if it helps!

Mark Twain’s book the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn was once considered an assault on slavery and racism. Huck Finn’s relationship with the runaway slave, Jim challenged the societal racism of the day. As the friendship grows, it becomes apparent the Huck sees Jim more as an equal, a man worthy of independence, and not as some other man’s piece of property.

Unfortunately today’s self-righteous “academics” reject the book as racist. It would appear that these “academics” do not have the capacity to read and understand any book with more words than pictures.

Right, Jim was a good guy, even risking freedom to aid Huck.

As for “digger” being offensive, tell that to the Aussies!

Mark Twain is one of my favorite authors. Somehow I doubt he would give a rat’s derriere about whether they named a cove after him on a lake that he didn’t like the name of anyway.

And going back to Twain’s original comment, could someone verify just what “Tahoe” actually means?  Is it “Silver Lake” or “Limpid Water” or “Falling Leaf” or something along those lines, or is it actually “grasshopper soup?” Inquiring minds want to know.

Damn here we go again, someone forgot to pony up the money. Someone do so quickly and everything will be okay.

WASHOE !

Gesundheit !

Sunday NYT cover story: students want warnings on books from the literary canon which contain “triggers” that is any slew of “isms” that might trigger a sensitivity meltdown. Even the professors think this is going to far in protecting the MEllenials from pain and suffering. Surely censorship, lawsuits and book burning to follow.

Check the posts above: All words ending in “igger” are now offensive.

the politically correct are people without a code to live by and are also devoid of a belief in themselves.

“Politically correct”……….I find that anything even pertaining to political is most assuredly NOT CORRECT!  It is just the perception of the biggest bully.  If I can MAKE you believe it, it is a truth!  So much for correctness of any kind in those arenas.

The American Indians were here first and had EVERYTHING just about taken from them. I HAVE ALL DUE RESPECT FOR THEM.

So, if they don’t want it named that, then so be it.

I like some of Mark Twain’s work, but why he would be prejudice against the American Tribes are beyond me, especially when the white man took everything and killed their family members for no reason.

Name something ELSE after the old RAYCISS writer.

Wow.  Please tell me that English is NOT your first language.

It shows how the American Indian would kill their neighbors and enslave the young women and  raise the very young children to hate their true tribal members.

lpoliver: Justifying the displacement, slaughter and imprisonment of millions of Native Americans by saying they killed their neighbors and kidnapped the women is ridiculous.  Our European ancestors took part in all kinds of horrific acts against one another.  Would you say that someone should have done the same thing to them as what was done to Native Americans.

Let’s call a spade a spade.  The first Europeans weren’t so much concerned with the infighting among tribes as they were in taking their land and other valuable resources.

With that said, I personally have no problem naming the cove after Mark Twain.

Give me a break!  Today’s Indians are no more native than any of the rest of us.  I live on an Indian reservation and the majority of them are as mixed blood as the whites are.  If they aren’t mixed yet, they try like crazy for that to happen.  Before the government got so heavily involved in our lives, we lived as a people.  Now we are Indians or Native Americans as they wish to be called, even the blue eyed and light haired ones, and whites.  This came about when the government started making sure there was no peace in the valley!  We all need to understand: THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT YOUR FRIEND, WE ARE ALL BEING USED!  Just look at the comments made here, we are fighting each other and the government is VERY busy doing what they wish without the interference from us they should be getting.  The things that we should REALLY be concentrating on are on our back burner and it should be front and center cause it is killing us as a nation.

They are worried about Mark Twain being a racist, he’s dead. Try worrying about something that matters like the federal government’s unbridled third world immigration that will further erode the Indian’s influence in their own country. Come to think of it, that’s why the Indians are where they are now, they had a terrible immigration policy.

Looks like the Washoe tribe can now eliminate the “W” in their tribal name.  As far as I’m concerned it is a perfect description.

If Sam were alive today, I’m sure he would observe something like ” the death of common sense in America has been greatly under-exxagerated”.

I’m offended by all of these people that are offended by things that they find offensive because they’ve got nothing better to do than be offensive to the people that aren’t in the least bit offended by anything the offended people say they are offended by.

Well said!

I am offended. I woke up offended. I did not know at what I was offended , but I found something. There are racist, bigot , homophobes under my bed. Tomorrow I will wake up offended again. I will find something to be offended by again tomorrow. I love being offended.

He also was a firm believer in Manifest Destiny and American imperialism early in his life. Later, he made a 180 degree degree turn in most of his beliefs and became what we would now call a social liberal and stood against many traditions like organized religion, bigotry and gunboat diplomacy. He was a firm supporter of women’s suffrage and what passed for civil rights in the late 19th and early 20th century. I believe the Washoe Tribe poorly researched this issue and should reconsider.
