
DASOL, Pangasinan – To protect the environment, the town of Dasol near the Zambales border strictly prohibits mining as well as fish pens and fish cages.

Mayor Noel Nacar said many have come to his town expressing interest in its limestone, manganese, copper, and gold but environmentally conscious residents are against any mining activity.

Under the town’s Comprehensive Land Use Plant (CLUP), one of the few among Pangasinan towns that has won a golden award from the national government, mining is not allowed in any part of Dasol, he said.

"If there is anyone coming to extract mineral resources, we tell him right away to pack up as we do not want any mining activity in our town," Nacar said.

The town is teeming with caves and mining might cause these caves to collapse and the town to sink.

Nacar recalled that in the early 1990s, Dasol was considered as possible site of a coal-fired power plant but residents vehemently opposed it; it was eventually built in Sual.

The mayor also said that any mining activity may pollute the Dasol Bay, which is being promoted by the town for tourism and is also the lifeblood of Dasol's thriving salt industry.

"We are producing fine salt and unrefined salt which forms in salt beds with the aid of the heat of the sun," Nacar said.

The bay is also the reason why the Sangguniang Bayan is reluctant to approve the proposal of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) to allow fish cages to be built on Dasol Bay.

There is big money in fish cages but if the town will allow these structures to proliferate in Dasol Bay, it may signal the end of the town's salt industry, he said.

The mayor recalled that sometime in early 2000, some investors built a few fish cages in some portions of Dasol Bay. But they were eventually driven away when salt makers noticed that the salt they were making turned yellowish instead of retaining its original white color.

He said that a few days ago, BFAR officials made a presentation before the town council on Dasol Bay being eyed as an expansion area in Northern Luzon for mariculture purposes.

In that meeting, BFAR personnel could not guarantee the protection of the town's salt industry if Dasol Bay is declared a mariculture zone.
