
DAP's action of fielding a Malay candidate in the Teluk Intan  by-election is merely window dressing to deceive the Malays, said Tun Dr  Mahathir Mohamad.

He said it was not impossible, however, for many Malays to support the  DAP candidate as history had proven that the Malays were easily duped by  such a move by DAP.

"The action is mere window-dressing and no high hopes (placed on the  candidate). If she wins, it's victory for them (DAP)," he said at the  'Chancellor's Talk' programme here.

Dr Mahathir was referring to candidate Dyana Sofya Mohd Daud, 27, who was nominated by the DAP to challenge Gerakan president Datuk Mah Siew Keong in the May 31 poll.

Dr Mahathir also expressed his disappointment that Dyana Sofya was the daughter of long-time Umno supporters.

"It's not a bother if the candidate comes from a pro-opposition family as from small, she would have been taught to hate Umno.

"As parents, Umno members should tell their children about Umno, its  history and what it has done (for country and people), otherwise when  they grow up, they will do as they please," he said.

generasi baru dengan idea baru yang sesuai di negara yang mengamalkan satu budaya satu agama , ni la budak-budak melayu sekarang lebih aksi daripada cina dalam DAP.Mungkin dia berhayal yang melayu terlalu ramai yang jutawan, terlalu ramai yang menjadi ahli professional dan orang melayu dah perlu pertolangan kerajaan.Politik baru melayu berjuang dalam DAP untuk DAP.

FREE MALAYSIAKINI.

KLFCW wants people of the World to unite and UNANIMOUSLY AGREE that war is a crime.

1. A good leader may not be humble but at least he should not be boastful.

2. He must be prepared to accept responsibilities but should not be too pushy and insistent on taking the lead.

3. He should not seek to blame others for failures but to admit his own culpability. He should not point fingers or seek scapegoats.

4. He should be modest and not seek praise and glory.

5. He should know how to handle his followers as much as his superiors. He must be sensitive to the sensitivities of others.

6. He should be willing to do what he expects others to do. He should uphold the slogan of leadership by example.

7. He should be learned and more intelligent at least by comparison to the people he leads.

International Conference "Expose War Crimes – Criminalise War"
