
MANILA, Philippines—Their strategy is to “bring the whole house down,” President Benigno Aquino III said on Monday of those who benefited from the pork barrel scam.

“’Bring the whole house down,’ pare-pareho na lang tayong may kasalanan…guluhin ang usapan,” Aquino said, explaining the “strategy” employed by those guilty of misusing public funds.

The President lamented the fact that there are now several purported lists of lawmakers and government officials who received commission from Janet Lim-Napoles.

“Yung unang listahan 14 ang senador na binanggit, 10 ang incumbent; ‘yung panibagong listahan, minus three. ‘Yung sinabi nung abogada nabasa ko sa pahayagan, na ‘yung tinatapos nilang affidavit magdadagdag at hindi ko alam kung magbabawas rin,” he said in an ambush interview in Bicol.

The first list was from the affidavit of Napoles given to Justice Secretary Leila de Lima. The second one was from Secretary Panfilo Lacson who claimed that Napoles’ husband Jaime gave it to him months before. Whistleblower Sandra Cam has also been claiming that she received another copy of the list from a source. However, some of the names on the lists did not match, according to Aquino and Lacson.

Nevertheless, the President said that while the government cannot trust Napoles to tell the whole truth, what she says may still be used since even false statements will have to be backed up by evidence.

“Kailangan mong suportahan ‘yung pagsisinungaling ng katotohanan. So ang mangyari kausapin natin ito, may mapupulot tayo sa kanya even willingly or unwillingly from her,” he said.

In the interview transcript sent to media, Aquino said he was still convinced that Napoles had a hand in orchestrating the pork barrel scam, making it unlikely for her to become state witness.

“Tapos (yung state witness) may criteria (na) ‘least guilty.’ E sa ngayon parang siya nasa sentro e, paano ‘yung ‘least?’” he pointed out.

He said Napoles is at the center of the controversy, connecting everyone else.

To subscribe to the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper in the Philippines, call +63 2 896-6000 for Metro Manila and Metro Cebu or email your subscription request here.
