
The FBI’s Bob Anderson Jr., described the charges as ‘the new normal’.

THE UNITED STATES has charged five Chinese military officials with hacking into US companies to gain trade secrets.

According to the indictment, hackers targeted the US nuclear power, metals and solar products industries and are accused of stealing trade secrets and economic espionage.

The charges have been described as unprecedented and dramatise a long-time Obama administration goal to prosecute state-sponsored cyber threats.

Bob Anderson Jr, executive assistant director of the FBI’s criminal, cyber response and services division said that this will likely be the first charge of what will be commonplace.

“This is the new normal. This is what you’re going to see on a recurring basis,” he said.

US officials have previously asserted that China’s army and China-based hackers had launched attacks on American industrial and military targets, often to steal secrets or intellectual property. China has said that it faces a major threat from hackers, and the country’s military is believed to be among the biggest targets of the NSA and U.S. Cyber Command.

“It is our hope that the Chinese government will respect our criminal justice system,” Holder said.

The indictment will put a greater strain on the US-China relationship.

Attorney General Eric Holder announcing the indictments today.

In recent months, Washington has been increasingly critical of what it describes as provocative Chinese actions in pursuit of territorial claims in disputed seas in East Asia. For its part, Beijing complains that the Obama administration’s attempt to redirect its foreign policy toward Asia after a decade of war in the Middle East is emboldening China’s neighbors and causing tension.

Last September, President Barack Obama discussed cybersecurity issues on the sidelines of a summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

White House spokesman Ben Rhodes said at the time that Obama had addressed concerns about cyber threats emanating from China. He said Obama told Xi the US sees it not through the prism of security but out of concern over theft of trade secrets.

In late March, Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel revealed that the Pentagon planned to more than triple its cybersecurity staff in the next few years to defend against Internet attacks that threaten national security.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Cyberwars: The United States has charged five Chinese military hackers ”.

Feedback on “Cyberwars: The United States has charged five Chinese military hackers ”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
