
Today’s New York Post.

Mayor Bill de Blasio this afternoon slammed the city’s tabloids for their treatment of his wife’s comments on the challenges of motherhood, calling the coverage “disturbing” and asking both papers to apologize.

“The whole situation of how the newspapers have handled this is very disturbing and inappropriate,” said the mayor, speaking to reporters after an official bill signing ceremony at City Hall.

In  a lengthy cover story  in this week’s New York magazine, Mr. de Blasio’s wife, Chirlane McCray, opened up about some of the difficulties she faced adjusting to motherhood after her daughter Chiara was born.

Sounding angry and hurt, Mr. de Blasio slammed both papers for their treatment of his wife’s comments.

“It really suggests a tremendous misunderstanding of what it is to be a parent, what it is to be a mother. I love my wife very deeply and she is an extraordinary mother. She always has been. She very much wanted to have children, which is evident in the New York magazine article, if anyone cares to read it and not caricature,” he said, heaping praise on her ability to handle intense family pressures.

“I over the years have marveled at her ability to take care of our two kids with such love, while having to do–in the middle of all that–the incredibly difficult work of helping both our mothers as they came to ends of their lives, while oftentimes having to have a full-time job,” he said.

The mayor–who put his family front-and-center during his campaign and whose wife is constantly by his side at City Hall–said the papers’ treatment was offensive not only to him, but to women across the city.

Representatives for both the Post and Daily News did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Politicker.com is now part of Observer.com. We're bringing you more political news, as well as culture, style, real estate and opinion.

Don't miss the latest from City Hall, Albany and Washington. Subscribe to our newsletter and follow New York Observer on Twitter and Facebook .

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
