
GOLD HILL — Here come the brides to Gold Hill.

Historic Gold Hill’s first bridal fair and fashion show is set for 2 to 6 p.m. June 8. Vendors will set up throughout the village, providing expertise on wedding planning, catering, photography, wedding cakes, DJ services, bridal and wedding stationary, fashion jewelry, custom sign designs, floral arrangements, hair and make-up designs, custom sign designs and honeymoon packages.

The village is located at 735 St. Stephen’s Church Road in Gold Hill.

Early registration tickets cost $10 per bride. The price goes up to $15 per bride on the day of the show. Gold Hill’s shops will have a bridal registry for brides to find unique gift ideas.

SALISBURY — Good Stuff 5&10 will host a grand re-opening starting June 3 to celebrate the shop’s first anniversary.

The business is located at 220 S. Main St., formerly Lasting Impressions. The 7.500-square-foot offers new and gently used clothing for the family, furniture, toys, medical equipment, household goods, home decor, sporting goods and more.

SALISBURY — Ronald E. Buffaloe of Salisbury was elected president of the N.C. Federation of Chapters, National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association at a convention held in Rocky Mount.

Buffaloe is past president of the Salisbury chapter and previously held the positions of national legislative officer, secretary and executive vice president of the N.C. Federation of Chapters.

Buffaloe retired in January 2009 as the district manager of the Salisbury district of the Social Security Administration. He is married to Barbara Buffaloe.

The N.C. Federation of Chapters was founded in 1956 and has more than 5,200 members in 44 chapters and represents the interests of more than 137,000 active and retired federal employees and their spouses in North Carolina.

The National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association was founded in 1921 to protect rights and benefits of America’s active and retired federal workers. The largest federal employee/retiree organization with more than 250,000 members, NARFE represents nearly 5 million current and future federal annuitants, spouses and survivors.

SALISBURY — The Candy Shoppe on Main will celebrate its first anniversary June 20 in conjunction with Friday Night Out.

The shop will have a drawing for three special prizes, which will go up in the window after June 1. Each $5 purchase will buy a chance to win a prize. Bob Trice will play acoustic guitar and sing in front of the store.

Eric Brady, a financial consultant with Thrivent Financial, has qualified to attend the Peak Performers conference as a Sierra Level qualifier by providing outstanding financial guidance and solutions to members of the organization in 2013. Out of about 2,300 Thrivent Financial representatives nationwide, 640 individuals qualified for this honor.

Brady is with Thrivent Financial’s Eastern Regional Financial Office, and serves members in Salisbury and surrounding communities. Brady was recognized by his peers at Thrivent Financial’s annual conference in Chicago. He has been with Thrivent Financial for 23 years. He has been recognized for his performance 18 times.

An assets protection workshop sponsored and presented by Estate & Elder Planning Center of North Carolina will be held Thursday, May 22,  at 1 p.m. at the JF Hurley Family YMCA, 828 Jake Alexander Blvd. West.

This free information workshop offers topics including 2014 update of income taxes, protecting assets from catastrophic illness and nursing homes without purchasing nursing home insurance, increasing the safety of your investments, advantages and disadvantages of bank CDs and more.

 Both spouses will benefit by attending and seating is limited.  RSVP your reservation by calling 800-445-1157.

The Livestock Conservancy, in partnership with Southern States, Virginia Cooperative Extension, the Framer Veteran’s Coalition and others in the industry, is offering an alternative for veterans to consider:  raising heritage livestock and poultry.

A workshop is being offered June 6-7 at the Stoneridge Events Center in Warrenton, Va., to educate and train service men and women on the skills necessary to steward some of America’s most historic and endangered farm animals.

“Our goal is to help returning veterans and retired service members succeed financially in heritage breed, sustainable agriculture by providing them with the knowledge and skills they need,” explained Livestock Conservancy Executive Director Eric Hallman.

Established in 1977, the Livestock Conservancy works to protect nearly 200 breeds of livestock and poultry from extinction.  The workshop will feature a day of presentations on various breeds of heritage livestock, getting started and discussions on economics and marketing. The following day, participants will tour one of three farm operations to hear discussions about breeding and herd management of grass-fed cattle; integrating farming for fun and profit with heritage livestock; and low-impact techniques for handling sheep and chickens.

Registration is on a first-come, first served basis with priority given to service men and women. There is a fee  but scholarships are available. For more information, visit www.LivestockConservancy.org  . For scholarship information please email amartin@albc-usa.org .

Salisburypost.com is pleased to offer readers the ability to comment on stories. We expect our readers to engage in lively, yet civil discourse. Salisburypost.com cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. Responsibility for the statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not Salisburypost.com. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click "report abuse" and we will review it for possible removal. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Full terms and conditions can be read here .

Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.

© 2014, Salisbury Post, All rights reserved.
