
A Super-PAC supporting the re-election of South Carolina's incumbent Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham has kicked in nearly $80,000 for a television ad-buy touting the incumbent's support for the military.

The broadcast time was purchased Monday by the West Main Street Values PAC, run by political consultant Walter Whetsell and former South Carolina Republican Chairman Katon Dawson, according to filings with the Federal Election Commission.

The ad, "Keeping Our Military Strong," charges that President Barack Obama is gutting the military while the nation faces enemies who "want to kill us," but that Graham has supported America's fighting men and women.

Story continues below video.

Against a crowded field of six challengers in the GOP primary June 10, Graham is aiming to get to a 50 percent threshold required in South Carolina to avoid a runoff election.

The West Main Street Values PAC has raised more than $425,000 to support Graham in his bid for re-election, says a news release about the advertising purchase.

"Lindsey Graham is a patriot who fights every day to ensure our families remains safe," Dawson says in the release. "South Carolina is a deeply patriotic state.  Republicans here have always appreciated Sen. Graham’s commitment to freedom and American exceptionalism."

Also on Monday, former Secretary of State Conoleezza Rice lent her support at a fundraising luncheon in Greenville, S.C., for the incumbent, The Post and Courier reports.

Rice sat next to Graham and spent 45 minutes answering questions about foreign policy – and got a standing ovation from about half of the 1,000-member audience when Graham said Rice ought to run for president, the newspaper reported.

During the session, Graham took a shot at current Secretary of State John Kerry, saying he's "a nice man but I wouldn't let him buy me a car" and adding: "He's a terrible negotiator."

Graham also said the GOP needed to do more to reach out to Hispanic voters, saying its immigration reform positions have hurt that effort, the newspaper said, adding that many Hispanics agree with the GOP's economic positions but that "it's hard to listen to your economic platform if I think you're going to deport my grandmother."

>> Login if you are already a member.

The "very strange" lack of a national Democratic response to the racially charged police shooting of an unarmed Missouri . . .

Ballot issues over marijuana legalization may be the Democrats' biggest hope of holding onto control of the Senate, a Br . . .

Wisconsin Republican Gov. Scott Walker is trumpeting job growth that has vaulted the state into third place in the Midwe . . .
