
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 11:46 a.m.

SALISBURY — They say virtue is its own reward, but it can still feel good to have your work recognized. That’s what Goodwill Industries recently did for Prince Moses, a peer support specialist with Social Work Service at the Salisbury VA Medical Center, during an event May 16 in Charlotte.

Moses was presented the 2014 Goodwill Industries of the Southern Piedmont GoodWork! Award for his work with Goodwill Industries. The GoodWork! Award is presented to individuals who have excelled in employment and leadership since receiving support at Goodwill.

Before starting work with VA, Moses received employment services through Goodwill and has continued to pay the help he received forward to others.

“I was in there shopping one day after I moved to Concord, and I wasn’t working at the time. My wife noticed they have a job resource center and said I should check it out,” he said.

Working with the job resource center to find work also provided Moses with the opportunity to help others.

“Goodwill was a powerful influence on me as far as counseling, consulting and encouraging me by meeting me where I was at the time,” he added.

Moses now uses the skills he learned working with Goodwill to help other veterans, and one of his focus areas is the homeless veteran population. Viola White-Douglas, Moses’ supervisor in the homeless program, said that experience has made Moses successful at what he does with VA.

Moses, who is a combat veteran from Persian Gulf War, said being a veteran and giving back to other veterans by trying to encourage them gives him a good feeling.

“I’m glad I served, and that I’m able to give back,” he said.

Moses said he has never helped others for any reason other than it was the right thing to do.

Salisburypost.com is pleased to offer readers the ability to comment on stories. We expect our readers to engage in lively, yet civil discourse. Salisburypost.com cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. Responsibility for the statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not Salisburypost.com. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click "report abuse" and we will review it for possible removal. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Full terms and conditions can be read here .

Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.

© 2014, Salisbury Post, All rights reserved.
