
Westminster’s Scottish Affairs Committee has urged both administrations to expedite the necessary procedures which will enable the Scottish Government to set the cap on Discretionary Housing Payments (DHPs).

The payments have been used to help those facing financial difficulty as a result of controversial changes to housing benefit, where people lose cash if they are deemed to have more rooms than they need.

About £50 million is needed to fully mitigate the loss in housing benefit payments for those council and housing association tenants who have been affected.

The UK Government offered to transfer the power to set the cap on DHPs north of the border to the Scottish Parliament earlier this month, with Scotland Office Minister David Mundell contacting Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon on the issue.

MPs on the Scottish Affairs Committee said they would now “urge both governments to expedite the necessary procedures which will enable the Scottish Government to lift the cap on DHPs in Scotland as quickly as possible”.

Committee chair Ian Davidson said the decision to transfer the power to Holyrood showed that “devolution works”.

He also called on the Scottish Government to “make a clear commitment to provide sufficient funding to enable every local authority in Scotland to make DHP payments which will cover the full costs of the bedroom tax since it was introduced for all of those who have been affected by it”.

Mr Davidson went on: “That means paying the bedroom tax for every Scottish tenant for the current financial year.

“But it also means giving Scotland’s councils enough money to write off bedroom tax arrears that accrued during the previous financial year and, crucially, to refund all additional rent that has been paid as a result of the bedroom tax.

In a report, the MPs said that if the Scottish Government was able to mitigate the impact of the bedroom tax in this current financial year, it should also do so for 2012-13.

“Thus it should make additional funding available to ensure that all bedroom tax arrears are written off and, to avoid moral hazard, all bedroom tax payments made last year are refunded. It is essential that these issues are resolved and processes clarified as soon as possible,” the MPs said.

Ms Sturgeon has already said that local councils should ‘’plan on the basis that all losses of housing benefit incurred by social tenants due to the bedroom tax can be fully mitigated’’.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
