
"We distribute news and press releases to African-American and Caribbean newspapers, magazines, radio and television stations, websites, mobile devices, organizations and opinion leaders across the state, region and nation around the clock!"

(BLACK PR WIRE) – Miami, FL -- What does it mean to be alive right here, right now as warnings increase global warming, sea-level rise and collapse of the oceans threaten our way of life and future? American writer and Miami Beach resident Jarid Manos [Ghetto Plainsman, 2010] delves into life beneath the news with an intensely beautiful and danger-filled online adventure Fear & Loving: Where the Ocean Meets the Streets.

In a twist to a classic literary approach, Fear & Loving is a two-year blogstory offered free online at www.jaridmanos.com . Each week Manos will share his experiences with the world. Fear & Loving explores life at sea level in Florida and Texas, states cited as “vulnerable” to rising seas in the new scientific report, the National Climate Assessment . Fans will follow Manos as he learns to become a skilled scuba diver. The journey is a parallel exploration of why we are afraid to go deep in our own lives.

A free subscription to Fear & Loving: Where the Ocean Meets the Streets is available online now at www.jaridmanos.com .

“There are all these hidden moments going on at ‘street level’ that tell a larger story before climate change hits in a big way. What are the other forces we are caught up in?” says Manos.

Powered by two literary grants, the Fear & Loving journey is garnering Manos national recognition. “With a distilled and starkly lyrical style, Jarid Manos unpacks a world that often goes unremarked upon: the interactions taking place in urban back alleys, and exploring the ocean blue,” says William Johnson, Managing Editor at Lambda Literary Foundation.

The C.E.O. of the nationally acclaimed Texas-based Great Plains Restoration Council , and regular contributor at Huffington Post Black Voices, Manos is currently finishing his second book, Her Blue Watered Streets: An American Novel.

The content and opinions expressed within this press release are those of the author(s) and/or represented companies, and are not necessarily shared by Black PR Wire. The author(s) and/or represented companies are solely responsible for the facts and the accuracy of the content of this Press release. Black PR Wire reserves the right to reject a press release if, in the view of Black PR Wire, the content of the release is unsuitable for distribution.
