
Alliance for a Better Zambia president Fr. Frank Bwalya has called on all Zambians to act decisively and make the PF lose with a very big margin in the 2016 general elections or they may arrogantly cling on to power.

Fr. Bwalya said the arrogant manner in which the PF has refused to honor the election promise to deliver a people driven constitution in an expedient and cost effective manner must be a concern to all Zambians as it was indicative of how PF conducts itself.

“We believe and fear that in the same manner PF has notoriously u-turned on its key election promises and violated the rights and freedoms of citizens, they will refuse to accept defeat and handover power in 2016. This premonition is not farfetched,” said Bwalya in a statement.

The ABZ leader said that PF is capable of shamelessly hanging on to power in total disregard of the wishes of the people and that Since Zambians will not accept such illegal conduct by PF there was fear that sustenance of peace and stability in the country will be under great threat.

“Against this background, we urge all Zambians to do everything possible to make sure that PF loses with a big margin in 2016 so that we can get even foreign help to remove them. We are also asking Zambians to be united and continue demanding for unity of purpose among well-meaning opposition political parties,” read Fr. Bwalya’s statement in conclusion.

Bwalya is equally evil as proved by his grave support for for Sata-n prior to 2011, ignoring all the weaknesses of Sata-n. He could as well be ignoring his own enabilities by overrating himself.

Ba Fr Bwalya just keep quiet you were in the for front supporting sata, now that he has not offerd you a position, you have dicided to turn aganist him behave like a father.

No need to wait for 2016, Sata is so sick with renal failure, cancer and HIV that we may end up having a Presidential Bye Election before 2016.  The man is on Health Steriods hence his hide and seek appearances from the public.

Fr Bwalya is a jackass. Didn’t he foresee this mess when he was busy sacrificing cocks so that Sata and PF could win in 2011? Bwalya is part of the satanic manifestations we are experiencing in Zambia. He should go to hell.

My dear that man is more than evil he decieved many zambians and now he’s sayiing bad things aganist his own plans usless man.

Zambia's Leading Investigative, 24-hour Breaking News Newspaper.
