
Venezuela vowed Sunday to accuse the United States of meddling in its political crisis at the United Nations and other international organizations. President Nicolas Maduro's socialist administration has been jolted by three months of often deadly street protests that have killed 42 people and wounded more than 800, The Voice of Russia reports.

The government has blamed local elites and the United  States for what it says is trying to oust Maduro, an elected leftist who  succeeded the late longtime President Hugo Chavez. The two countries  have had strained bilateral ties for more than a decade.

"We  will be making formal complaints at the United Nations, since (the  United States) is violating the UN Charter," Foreign Minister Elias Jaua  charged on Televen television, AFP reports.

Jaua said  Caracas also will lodge complaints against the United States at regional  groups, including the Organization of American States, Latin American  and Caribbean grouping CELAC and South American bloc UNASUR.

The  government has a "comprehensive file" with statements of "interference"  from US President Barack Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry and other  top American officials, Jaua said.

Those are "in  addition to constantly threatening to impose sanctions... Enough  already; it is not for the United States to take on authorities that  belong to international organizations," Venezuela's top diplomat said.

In  recent weeks, the United States has raised the possibility of slapping  sanction on Venezuelan authorities over reported abuses of protesters  and if a dialogue with the opposition breaks down.

Maduro  said Saturday he hopes to speak with opposition members after their  leaders meet Sunday with international supporters of the process.

Protests against the policy of the authorities are under way in  Venezuela since mid-February; they have already taken lives of 42  people. Earlier, Maduro also accused the right-wing forces and the USA  of destabilizing the situation in the country. According to the head of  state, he has confidence in the power of the revolution. "But I must  announce to our homeland and the world that the madness of the  conspirators still supposes the use of violent scenarios," said Maduro.
