
Ready to fly: MASkargo unveiling its new livery on its A330 freighter, which will carry the pandas to Kuala Lumpur.

PETALING JAYA: Fu Wa and Feng Yi will be flown in to Malaysia via a special flight arranged by MASkargo.

The pandas are expected to arrive at the MASkargo Complex at the KL International Airport in Sepang at about 6.30am tomorrow from Chengdu, China.

They will then be taken to Zoo Negara.

“They will be quarantined for about one month in their newly completed enclosure in Zoo Negara,” said Datuk Seri G. Palanivel in a statement yesterday.

The Natural Resources and EnviÂ­ronment Minister said the arrival of the pandas was significant.

“It is in line with the 40th anniversary of the diplomatic ties between China and Malaysia this year,” he pointed out.

On June 15, 2012, both the Malaysian and Chinese governments inked a deal for the pandas to be loaned to Malaysia.

Palanivel said Malaysia would have the opportunity to conduct conservation research on the pandas and help develop and train local talents.

“The experience and expertise can be used to raise awareness about conservation of local species such as tigers, tapirs and the sun bear.

“We also hope to increase public awareness of the uniqueness and importance of wildlife conservation and biodiversity,” he said.

Sources familiar with the pandas’ arrival said that several representatives from Zoo Negara, the China Wildlife Conservation Association and MASkargo would accompany Fu Wa and Feng Yi to ensure they arrived safely.

They also said that it would take about two hours to prep the pandas before they were to board the plane.

Ample food such as bamboos will also be stocked on board during the journey.

However, they refused to divulge if the pandas would be sedated or kept awake during the six-hour journey.

“Those on board will monitor the pandas throughout the flight,” said the sources.

Once the pandas reach Malaysia, they will be housed in a fully air-conditioned 1.6ha complex, which is fitted with three air conditioners and 22 CCTV cameras.

The complex will also have a nursery, while two veterinarians will be on standby.
