
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

In an interview with NewsDay over the weekend, EU head of delegation to Zimbabwe, Aldo Dell‘Ariccia said as much as Mugabe’s remarks on the indigenisation policy were commendable, investors would need to see legislation being put in place to assure them of the security of their investments.

The indigenisation policy, which compels foreign-owned companies with a minimum shareholding of $500 000 to sell 51% of their shareholding to locals has largely been blamed for scaring away foreign direct investments.

The Zanu PF government initially defended the policy claiming it was crafted to empower the previously marginalised black majority.

However, Mugabe and Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa have lately been assuring potential investors that that the policy had been relaxed.

Dell‘Ariccia said: “The EU has noted with great interest the declarations by President Mugabe and minister Chinamasa about the flexibility of the indigenisation policy and the fact that it will not be applied with a one-size-fits-all approach. I think that is good news for any investor, not just European ones.

One of the concerns among analysts with regards the indigenisation policy was that it lacked clarity and transparency.

Dell‘Ariccia said that Zimbabwe needed to ensure the indigenisation policy does not stand in the way of a predictable economic environment adding that “non-discrimination” was equally essential if the country’s efforts at attracting foreign investors were to bear the desired fruits.

“The predictability of the economic and financial environment, based on a legal framework that grants the respect of the principles of accountability, transparency and non-discrimination is an essential condition to attract foreign investors,” Dell‘Ariccia said.

Tourism and Hospitality Industry minister Walter Mzembi is on record saying that Zimbabwe needed a “sober” approach towards the indigenisation policy.

Dell‘Ariccia said it was essential for Zimbabwe to strike a balance between national interests and laws on international finance.

“Sobriety is an interesting concept. However, it seems to refer to the fact of avoiding too much greed from the side of the indigenising partner. I think that rather than a sober approach, Zimbabwe needs a clear approach, based on a sound compromise between national interests and the laws on international finance,” Dell‘Ariccia said.

He said that Zimbabwe’s economic revival was hinged on huge capital injection from foreign investors hence it was critical for the country to put in place investor friendly policies.

Dell‘Ariccia said Zimbabwe needed to restore its relations with international finance institutions as well.

“Zimbabwe has a great potential of becoming once again, the economic hub of the Southern African region. The human capital is there, the natural conditions are favourable and the resources are vast.

“What is needed is to re-launch the economy and reactivate the productive sector, infrastructure and the modernisation of the industrial plants. A proper influx of capital is crucial in this framework hence investor friendly policies and a proper relation with the international finance institutions are essential,” Dell ‘Ariccia said.

Forget it Mr. Ambassador! It is not only about the indigenization policy, but about the whole toxic operating environment. Do you still remember the Telecel-Jane Mutasa case, where the AG has vehemently refused to prosecute this alleged recharge cards thief despite all the evidence? A company had to appeal to the high court to compel the AG to prosecute. Apparently, the job of the AG is to prosecute and not to judge. But in this case, the AG already judged that she doesn’t have a case to answer! What a farce. That is as ridiculous as it gets, and you expect serious investors in such a shark-infested country. Forget it, no one will set foot in a wasteland gone to the dogs!

Thank you Aldo.As you succinctly put it Bob you have talked the talk now walk the walk………………………..

Gushungo has a mountain to climb in order to convince the international investors after what happened during the land reform programme where investments protected by govt were ignored and taken over. Its very difficult for new investors to believe that the same scanario will not be repeated in future, especially when characters like Kasukuwere remain part of govt.

Good news for the investors .we support/ u cde President.

To be honest. How many ordinary people benefitted since the policy was formulated? How many well connected and those high up there benefitted. Even if they say stop the whole bloody thing. Nothing is going to change for the ordinary. When the policy was being implemented, those who did it knew exactly where to go and how the benefit, yes they are now shareholders of different companies across the country now. They paid and they are now injoying the fruits. Then if the whole thing is stopped, they are okay. Thank you the politicians for making us suffer in our birthland. Making us beggars in our land.
