
Hit me hard from the beginning [laughs]. I like that. I’m very happy. I’m happy that America’s about to meet a bunch of great guys, and I’m really excited to put it out there and let everybody just see this journey. I was looking for a guy that was a family-oriented person. Also a guy that’s strong and confident but also able to be vulnerable and to share his emotions with me. I want that physical chemistry, that mental connection, that intellectual connection.

I didn’t want to know a single name stepping out of that limo because I want everyone to be on a clean slate. This is my one opportunity to really do this and do it right. My experience last season definitely taught me that this can be a quick process, but you can also use that time to our advantage and really get to know people by just talking to them, asking them questions. I said, from the very first night to the guys: “I don’t know how this is going to play out, but I promise you that you can ask me any question, nothing is off limits.” Just allowing everyone to feel like they had an open line of communication, I think that really helped us along the way.

It’s definitely tougher than I thought. It’s not easy to kind of play host and be responsible for a lot of people. I think America was probably left with the impression that I was a tough, no-nonsense girl, which is partially true, but you’re going to see a softer side of me. I don’t know if I feel like people gave him too hard of a time or not. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion. I saw him after the final rose and he did wish me luck, which was appreciated. It’s hard to forget Juan Pablo — that’s why I was on The Bachelorette, but I’m on my own journey now.

Obviously, it had a huge effect on all of us. It was just crushing. It’s devastating anytime you lose somebody that you know, and he became a part of our family. So we lost a family member. I think we are holding on to the legacy of Eric. He really did live life to the fullest.

I worked out as much as I could. It’s go, go all the time. So sometimes I just needed that little workout session to clear my mind and just really not think of anything, put some music on. That was kind of like my moments of solitude.

The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

The Miami Herald uses Facebook's commenting system. You need to log in with a Facebook account in order to comment. If you have questions about commenting with your Facebook account, click here .

This affects comments on all stories.
