
Extended mission will search the ecliptic for exoplanets, star clusters, supernovae, and galaxies.

After being crippled when two of its four reaction wheels failed, the Kepler spacecraft, launched to find planets orbiting other stars, is back in action through innovative use of solar power.

Launched in 2009, Kepler found 3,845 candidate planets orbiting stars in the constellations Cygnus and Lyra. So far, 966 of these objects have been confirmed to be exoplanets, meaning planets that orbit stars other than our Sun. Four reaction wheels kept the spacecraft in place through their spinning motions at its base, allowing Kepler to maintain a steady focus on the star systems being observed.

The spacecraft first ran into trouble when one of the reaction wheels jammed in 2012. Capable of working with just three reaction wheels, Kepler continued to function normally until a second wheel jammed last year. The loss of two reaction wheels undermined Kepler’s stability, making it unable to aim and focus at target stars.

Ground controllers were unable to move the wheels, leading many to believe the mission was over. Instead, engineers created an alternate system that uses the subtle pressure of photons from sunlight to stabilize the two reaction wheels and the spacecraft itself.

Inspiration for this solution came from the longstanding idea of using the solar wind, made up of high energy bursts of sub-nuclear particles continually emitted by the Sun, to power space vehicles through the solar system and even into interstellar space. Astronomer Johannes Kepler first came up with this idea 400 years ago, although NASA is currently researching its plausibility.

Kepler is not using the solar wind, relying only on the power of sunlight.

With its newfound stability, Kepler’s mission has been extended two years by NASA, with the possibility of a third year if it does not run out of fuel first. NASA has approved its funding for two more years, bringing its total cost to $600 million.

For its extended mission, the telescope will change its target from stars in Cygnus and Lyra to stars in the ecliptic, the Earth’s orbital plane, populated by the zodiac constellations, in the continued search for exoplanets.

The spacecraft, which will resume its operations on May 30, will also search for star clusters, supernovae, and active galaxies.

Have something to say? Let us know in the comments section or send an email to the author . You can share ideas for stories by contacting us here .

Copyright           2014          by KPR Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
