
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -- The ex-husband of Oregon Senate candidate Monica Wehby called police to accuse her of harassing him as they were going through a divorce in 2007, according to a police report made public Monday.

The report is the second in less than a week of a former companion calling police on Wehby as the relationship deteriorated. It comes as the Tuesday deadline approaches for voters to return their ballots in Oregon's all-mail primary.

The latest report, dated December 2007, said Wehby's ex-husband, Jim Grant, called police during an altercation at the couple's Portland home. The report says Grant told an officer he "is tired of the ongoing harassment by his wife."

Grant told police that over the previous year, Wehby had pulled his hair, slapped him and thrown items at him. On the night he called, he said Wehby slapped him with a pad of paper. The officer wrote that he saw a small red dot on Grant's cheek, but wasn't sure what might have caused it.

Grant also told the officer that he'd "been violent with her" about three years earlier. The report does not elaborate, and Grant could not be reached.

Wehby denied hitting Grant with a pad of paper and portrayed Grant as the aggressor, saying he began swearing and yelling at her while she was on the phone with the nanny.

The report did not result in any charges. It was first reported by The Oregonian.

On Friday, a separate police report showed Wehby's former boyfriend, Andrew Miller, called police last year reporting that she was stalking him and harassing his former employees. Miller later funded a super PAC attacking Wehby's Republican primary opponent, Jason Conger, and said he regretted calling police.

"Like a lot of women, I've gone through a divorce that was a trying time in my life for me and for my family," Wehby said in a statement. "I'm deeply saddened that such a personal matter, which bears no relevance to my Senate campaign, has been used as a political weapon to attack my character."

In previous primaries, fewer than half the ballots were cast in the last two days of the election, so the impact of the latest revelations on Wehby's fortunes will be limited. Through Sunday, 24 percent of registered Republicans had cast a ballot.

Copyright © The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

ATTENTION COMMENTERS: We've changed our comments, but want to keep you in the conversation.

Please login below with your Facebook, Twitter, Google+ or Disqus account.  Existing MyNorthwest account holders will need to create a new Disqus account or use one of the social logins provided below. Thank you.
