
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

race for the White House.

Presumed Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton hasn't even announced a bid, but key Republicans are already on the attack - with the former first lady and secretary of state's health taking center stage.

GOP insiders say if she runs in 2016, she'll have to answers questions about her health and age.

"I'm not a doctor," Republican National Committee chair Reince Priebus said. "What I do know is that the issue is going to come up as it does for any person running for president."

Back in December 2012, Clinton suffered a concussion caused by a fall, and doctors discovered a blood clot in her head. Republican consultant Karl Rove suggested she suffered a brain injury.

"She is going to have to cough up these medical records," he said. "She'll be 69 at the time of the 2016 elections."

During a busy week in public giving speeches and attending museum openings, Clinton shrugged off Rove's comments. She let her husband respond.

"Now they say she's really got brain damage," Bill Clinton said, chuckling. "Well if she does, then I must be in really tough shape because she's still quicker than I am."

And then there's Benghazi. Republicans are raising more questions about the attack on the U.S. consulate there and Clinton's handling of the incident as secretary of state.

"She clearly bears responsibility for whatever the state department did or didn't do," former Vice President Dick Cheney said. "I don't think we've heard the last of it yet."

Republicans say they will likely call Clinton to testify before a Benghazi special committee.

Most Republicans believe they should go after Clinton on Benghazi, but the party is more divided over targeting her health and age. Prominent conservative Bill Kristol admonished Rove for his comments, pointing out that Ronald Reagan was 69 when he was elected president.
