
At least 35 people have been killed and tens of thousands of others forced to flee their homes in the Balkans during the worst flooding in over a century for the region. As if the catastrophic flooding weren't enough, the region is also dealing with a host of other consequences from the flooding, including land mines, landslides and a potential shutdown of one of the biggest power plants in the region.

The flooding in Bosnia, Serbia, and to a somewhat lesser extent, Croatia, started on Thursday after a slow-moving system dumped three-months worth of rain onto the region in just three days.

"A strong disturbance in the jet stream closed off into a swirling, stuck upper-level low near the Balkans, instead of sweeping through," said weather.com senior meteorologist Jon Erdman . "The result is persistent, flooding rainfall."

Thousands of homes and businesses, roads and railways were washed out by the flooding. Tens of thousands were evacuated across the three countries, 20,000 plus in Serbia alone, including entire towns in some instances.

In Obrenovac, Serbia flooding forced the evacuations of 7,800 people with 2,000 others believed to be stranded on the top floors of buildings. The town is home to the Nikola Tesla power plant—the country's largest—a coal-fed behemoth that provides power to half of Serbia and most power to the country's capital of Belgrade.

Authorities in Obrenovac said Monday that thousands of soldiers, police and volunteers have been trying to "defend" the power plant from floodwaters using a wall of sandbags, but that the situation there was still "critical," according to the Associated Press.

Even if some areas have escaped the worst of the flooding, others have been taken out by some of the 3,100 landslides—2,100 in Bosnia and an additional 1,000 in Serbia—that have occurred over the past four days, triggered by the tremendous amount of water that has destabilized and shifted the earth.

The flooding and landslides also combined to sweep away thousands of land mines from the wars that characterized the region during the 1990s. Also swept away, were the warning signs that alerted residents to the presence of nearby land mines. Authorities fear that deadly encounters with land mines swept downstream will increase as the debris from the floods settles.

But the worst of the flooding may not be over yet. Though the weather in the region has improved dramatically since Thursday, weather.com meteorologist Jon Erdman said that flooding downstream, especially in the Serbian capital of Belgrade will peak over the next two days.

"Flood events can persist for days, even weeks after heavy rain occurs, as water from swollen tributaries empties into main stem rivers, producing a broad flood crest," Erdman said.

Indeed, even as floodwaters receded in some locations, others downstream along the Sava River had already been swept away by the swollen expanse of river. As the flooding continues, authorities in the region fear that the death toll will only continue to grow.

"The situation is catastrophic," said Bosnia's refugee minister, Adil Osmanovic.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.
