
The economy tanked in 2008. We are now almost six years into the Obama presidency, and where is the economy? Still limping along tepidly, of course. The economists have to try to get excited about the drop in the unemployment figure when everyone knows it is a manipulated figure that is dropping mainly because people are giving up and leaving the workforce. Obama shouts his love for the middle class from the rooftops, but his policies are destroying the middle class.

In a recent column Rich Lowry said Hillary Clinton did little, then passed the baton. Of course that's what she did. Should anyone be surprised? That's what liberals do. They postulate; they expound; they put voice to lofty goals and ideals; they just never get around to really doing anything. Let's face it, Barack Obama used his brief tenure in the Senate to vote present most of the time. As a result, he had no voting record anyone could criticize. Hillary learned from that and now has a record as Secretary of State that is identical to Obama's Senate record. It's safe. That's why the Benghazi situation was handled as it was.

There was an article featured the other day about how gas prices have inched up. I had to laugh. Where has this reporter been the last six years? Gas prices have doubled since Bush left office. Do you think that just "happened"? No! Obama made it clear before he was anointed president that the U.S. was not paying its fair share at the pump. Inching up, I ask? How about robbery at the gas pump, thanks to Obama!

Congratulations to Sikeston teacher Susan Kimball for virtually single-handedly leading the Missouri state legislature to abolish Common Core Standards. The community owes you a debt of gratitude and should support your future aspirations, political or otherwise.

© Copyright 2014 Southeast Missourian. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

People who blame high gas prices on Obama always seem to have a memory block of anything that happened before January 20, 2009.

Wrong Micheck.  See Chart, Gasoline Cost Facts: www.energytrendsinsider.com/2012/03/14/c... Once you go to the link, scroll down page to view years 1998 through 2011, and the administration in office  per the period.      Have a good day.

Middle class: Agree, bring the middle class down to the lowest level and then we will have only the poor and only the rich classes.

Playing it safe: Whatever works to be elected, works for both parties. Then will your elected you blink and say it's my way or the highway. I have a pen to do my bidding and my own private jet to take us anywhere that we want to go.

Gas prices: Way too high no matter whose in office. Drill, Drill, Drill and OK the Keystone pipeline.

Mo. Common Core: Thanks Susan from calling into S.O. However, you did do a good job. Common Core will be like the other new programs shoved down our throats....no good.

And that's the way it should be....Monday May 19, 2014.  On the road again - everyone have a good day.

Wrong Micheck.

In the summer of 2008 speculators drove up prices playing on the problems in Libya and the unrest in the Middle East.  Then things calmed and we had the sudden drop. Then we got Obama.

Miccheck's link, and the original link, are both flawed.

First, the CPI has intended bias in its calculation.

Secondly, you're both assuming the administration's actions are the primary driving force of fuel prices.  The democrats blamed "bush and his oil buddies" when prices went up due to market instability and an increase in global demand.  Meanwhile, credit wasn't given to the Bush administration when started to tank in 08.

Meanwhile, the nominal prices are climbing thus far in 2014.  One problem is is that the CPI bias fails to recognize is that our actual purchasing power has declined, while the index is climbing faster than incomes.  Therein lies the problem.

Middle class: EVERYBODY is for the middle class during an election year. Republicans and Democrats trip over each other to claim they are the protectors of it. Then after the election, they both go back to protecting their rich masters.

Playing it safe:Yes, that's what those liberal rascals do alright. And all the while, the conservative ones are waiting around for 11:00 am to come so they can get tomorrows shallow and immature load of bovine scatology known as talking points from their favorite demagogue. And the beat goes on. Curses on both houses.

It is fascinating to watch this dog and pony show blow up in their faces. Independent investigators looking into baseless public accusations with "unfounded" as the result.  Now the conspiracy theorists will claim that the investigator was bought and paid for.  Sounds a lot like someone's senate testimony.

Yep you got the legislature to throw out common core but as far as I can tell Missouri students are still going to be tested using the national standards.

Govmt Gasoline Price Link: .The link is accurate, and it was 2008 you referred, to begin with.  2012 to 2014.stats were also read on.another link - same site,  again your info was incorrect.  The stats show the highest, not mere averages.  Back to work.

My last post Correction, link.shows actual prices, lows and highs, not just mere averages.  Later, good day .

again your info was incorrect. The stats show the highest, not mere averages. Back to work.

"Average cost for a gallon of gas in the U.S. between 1998-2011:"

That does not in anyway dispute the fact that prices in the summer of 2008 were over $4/gallon (on average across the country).

Miccheck, they know the price of gas was $4.00 a gallon in 2008, they just want to argue with you.

Miccheck, they know the price of gas was $4.00 a gallon in 2008, they just want to argue with you.

I'm afraid you may be right. I don't know why I still let myself get sucked in.

Miccheck, they know the price of gas was $4.00 a gallon in 2008, they just want to argue with you.

I am not sure it computes with them.

Just signed on.  Looking at the latest post.  Hahaha...ha!  Omg, hehe.  Me either.  Re Not sure it computes with them.  Ha ha.  Lord have mercy.  Hard headed ppl.  Hehehe.

Really.  Ha.  Back to work.  Later, have a good day.

Gas prices tanked by fall 2008.  What does it matter?  Let's see some realistic reason as to why? For pete's sake, why are you all arguing semantics?  Miccheck is the worst.  The real question is why?  All you guys try to do is blame one side or the other.

Apparently that logic computes with none of you.  You'd rather link to useless information being taken out of context trying to play "gotcha" to somehow "prove" your side is right.

For pete's sake, why are you all arguing semantics? Miccheck is the worst.

I'm not trying to argue semantics; I'm merely pointing out the gas prices have been higher in the past.

For what it's worth, I agree with your earlier point that presidential administrations have little to do with the retail price of gas.

On the Republican Saturday address Sen McCain spoke about the VA and it's failing to adequately care for our veterans.

Obama's Saturday address centered on tourism. Of course three weeks ago he expressed his usual outrage over the VA but hasn't said a word about it since. Tourism? Really? When did tourism become such an important subject for a president? I guess when you are Tourist in Chief. He travels to Cooperstown Baseball Hall of Fame today to continue his tourism talk. Hey,it's possible someone there could teach him how to throw out a first pitch. Even better he may get inducted himself. He got a Nobel for doing nothing. At least he hasn't killed anyone with a bat.

Obama's Saturday address centered on tourism.

Three sentences in the speech were regarding tourism.

I know firsthand from past experiences with Sikeston Public Schools when I worked there that they did intimidate the employees. One custodian was trying to get a union in and wound up getting fired over it. The powers to be told everyone there they did not want to hear any more talk of a union. That was and is a violation of federal law. The worker took them to court and won. The school district will still deny that happened to this very day. The worker trying to get the union just wanted health insurance for him and his family but unless you were a teacher that was not happening.

Miccheck, they know the price of gas was $4.00 a gallon in 2008, they just want to argue with you.

I am not sure it computes with them.

OK.  Read slow. It was 4.12.

For almost two quarters in 2008 it was higher than the lows in the last three years of Obamanism. BTW when it dropped to 1.61 it well made up for the 4.12 it hit for less than a week.

It amazes me how Reasoning is always saying conservatives can't understand. I guess she thinks she is accomplished.

I am male, regret.  Not that it matters on here, but I never claimed to be a "she", and I am what I am.

Nah, I am only accomplished in my real life(and perhaps only in my view), definitely not on here.  I can't convince anyone to listen to another view.

Nah, I am only accomplished in my real life(and perhaps only in my view), definitely not on here. I can't convince anyone to listen to another view.

Reason: Well said.

Reasoning, I won't listen to another view if it doesn't comply with the constitution.

And I respect that Bon, the difference is in your interpretation of the constitution, and my interpretation.  My view complies with the constitution as a flexible or living document.

I believe the founders built this flexibility into the document.  It is short, can be amended and interpreted as times change.

Reasoning and Rick, that is a huge part of the problem.  The Constitution is not a living, breathing document.  It is cut and dry, permanent law of the land.  Yes, it can be amended, but there is a process for that.  Other than that, it is what it is, without question.

Gas prices. The average gas price has been steadily rising since the mid 90s, so lets not act like the prices jumped when Obama took office. The biggest reason why gas is getting more expensive is because we are starting to run low on oil in the world. Simple supply and demand.

Whitefeather and rick, I was glad to see that you understand the president has little power over gas.

Playing it safe, saying liberals don't do anything. That's laughable, what have the republicans done since the beginning of the bush admin., get us in to two wars, crashed our economy, then nothing. What have liberals done, cleaned up your mess, even in the face of pure obstruction from republicans.

Rock in roll. He has spoken about it with in the past few days when he said that it will be fully investigated, but lets not pretend that the issues with the VA are some how new.

Good Morning.  Bon, glad someone else see's the fiasco on oil prices.  Of course the President can do something about the prices.  Its like Chicken Little, saying the sky is falling, when it isnt falling.  Its easily remedied, remove every penny of funds to those who jack up the prices etc.,and foreign aid to those who jack up the prices of crude oil.  Another fact, there is a ton of oil not only in the ocean floors, but also in Alaska itself that has never really been 100% utilized, and drilled.  Weve been in the business of using others (foreign) resources first, and limiting what we have here, in order to preserve our own resources.  Anyways, got to go.  Have a good day.

One more thing, just a thought.  if ppl really were worried about the prices of oil, and cost of gasoline, theyd limit their use and stay home more.  Right?  But thats not happening.  Okay, gotta go.  Good day.

Left: I wondered the same thing, a bushel of wheat (using the following link) cost $408.60 and a barrel of oil (using the following link) is $104.04..need almost 4 barrels of oil to 1 bushel of wheat.

Re Price of wheat:  puts it into perspective, doesnt it?  Also in.terms of US GOVMT AID, how much taxpayers are paying in shipments to foreign.aid.    My sixteen year old dog past away last night.  His heart went, congestive heart failure took a toll on him, finally took him from us.   Ive had crying spells since. Same as losing a family member.  He was my best friend.  Knew it would be hard, just no idea it be  this hard.  I held him in my arms til the end, then he took his last breath starring into my eyes, never once blinking.  Couldnt believe he was gone, ya know?  I  lit a prayer candle, barely able to contain myself, said my final goodbyes and prayers for him.  No doubt about it, he was my best friend.  Hence the saying, mans best friend.  Have a good day.

Only thing harder, was burying my son.  Have a good day.

Sorry Freetospeak, pets are part of the family.

Freetospeak: After a good woman, a dog is man's best friend. Sorry for your loss.

Sorry about your friend,freetospeak. Had a terrier go down a few years ago with congestive heart failure. It was a bad time. Jarbo adopted me later. Since he was a rescue(maybe he thought I needed rescuing?) no idea his age,but he's getting a bit grey on the muzzle and a little slower on our walks. I dread the thought of losing another best buddy.

My sympathy for the loss of your dog, Freetospeak.  I had a little Terrier for 18 years and it broke my heart when he passed away. They are a member of your family.

I have no idea what the less fortunate among us are doing at this very moment but I just consulted the world clock and it indeed 5 o'clock somewhere. I shall baste myself with a few beers then consider what to bbq. First one lifted for free's friend.

Rock: It's 5 o'clock here in GS.

Thank you, everyone for all the kind words, even the funny example by Rick, thanks- cheered me, you made me laugh Rick.  Thank you everyone.  Gotta go, have a good night.

Nah, I am only accomplished in my real life(and perhaps only in my view), definitely not on here. I can't convince anyone to listen to another view.

I think I used the wrong word as I do sometimes. Sorry about that.

Free, sorry pal. Been down that road twice and preparing for another one. All of mine have been rescued. They are the best kind. They know somehow what you are doing for them. Other than helping another human in distress, there's nothing more gratifying, to me, than helping a 4 legged friend.

So Bucklew got his stay of execution.  Too bad the judges that grant those aren't as concerned about all the abortions that kill innocent babies.  Where's their stay of execution?  A nation that coddles it's criminals and kills it's babies faces a terrible judgment.

Please be respectful of others and try to stay on topic.
