
Share This Story!

Judges have tossed out similar bans in a half dozen states since last year's Supreme Court decision.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A federal judge in Portland who is raising a child in a same-sex relationship appeared poised Monday to overturn Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage.

Judge Michael McShane said he would rule at noon local time -- 3 p.m. ET -- on a lawsuit brought by four gay and lesbian couples challenging the ban that was approved by voters a decade ago.

Both sides in the case have asked McShane to drop the ban. The state's Democratic attorney general, Ellen Rosenblum, has declined to defend the law, saying last year's U.S. Supreme Court ruling that tossed out key parts of the federal Defense of Marriage Act made the state ban indefensible.

Judges have tossed out similar bans in a half dozen states since the Supreme Court decision.

Last week, McShane rejected an effort by the National Organization for Marriage, which opposed gay marriage, to intervene in the Oregon case. McShane's ruling that the group had not standing in the case left no litigants to oppose the effort to drop the ban.

The organization's leader, John Eastman, has questioned whether McShane should hear the case, claiming that McShane is in the same position as the couple's who filed the suit. McShane said in court last month that he and his partner have "no plans" to get married, OregonLive.com reported.

Jeana Frazzini, executive director of Basic Rights Oregon, told the website that "we will bring the freedom to marry into Oregon this year" either through court action or a ballot measure.

Oregon United For Marriage, which gathered signatures to qualify a same-sex marriage initiative for the ballot, has said it will drop the measure if McShane rules in favor of gay marriage.

Seventeen states and the District of Columbia have legalized same-sex marriage. Judges in seven other states have struck down bans on gay marriage, though appeals are pending in some states. More challenges are pending.

In Oregon, Portland attorneys Lake Perriguey and Lea Ann Easton filed a lawsuit in October on behalf of two women in a relationship for more than 30 years. Two months later, the American Civil Liberties Union and lawyers from two firms went to court on behalf of a lesbian couple and a gay couple.

Oregon's ban, approved by 57% of voters, came months after Multnomah County briefly issued marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Multnomah includes Portland and is the state's largest county.

About 3,000 gay couples were allowed to marry before a judge halted the practice. The Oregon Supreme Court later invalidated the marriages.
