
Srinagar, May 19 (KMS): In occupied Kashmir, the Chairman of All Parties Hurriyet Conference, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq has said that if India bases its policy on reality and initiates a meaningful dialogue by inviting Pakistani leadership and Kashmiri resistance leadership, the Hurriyet would lend its full support to the process.

He was addressing an event titled “Hawal incident: A Bloody Chapter in Kashmir History.” The function was organized by the APHC to remember Moulvi Mohammad Farooq, Khwaja Abdul Gani lone, martyrs of Hawal and other martyrs at its Rajbagh headquarters in Srinagar.

“But if they continue their policy of suppression and military repression it will be resisted strongly at all levels,” he added. The APHC chairman stated that the rulers in Delhi should apprise people in India about the historical context to the Kashmir dispute. He said Kashmiris have already rejected the so called polls in Kashmir and have conveyed their message loud and clear.

Terming Kashmir as a police state, Mirwaiz said there is no democracy in Kashmir. He said all the significant decisions are taken by army and police to run the Kashmir affairs. He said that Kashmiris would continue to fight for their freedom till they would achieve it. He condemned the continuous arrest and detention of pro-freedom leaders and youth and demanded their immediate release.

The Mirwaiz stated that the so-called claimants of democracy opened indiscriminate fire on the rally, mourning the martyrdom of Mirwaiz Moulvi Muhammad Farooq, at Hawal in 1990, and killed over 70 people and injured hundreds of others. He said that such example of brutality was rarely found in the history. He said that real motive of observing the Martyrdom Week was to reaffirm the resolve to take the mission of martyrs, who laid their lives for the sacred cause, to its logical conclusion.

Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said that Kashmir was not a dispute of borders, neither it was an internal issue of India nor a problem of economic deprivation, but it was an internationally recognized dispute and urged the world community to respect the will and aspirations of Kashmiris and play their dutiful role in resolving the long vexed dispute.

He stated the change in dispensation in India would have no bearings on Kashmiri people till their policies and thinking showed a radical shift from the current standpoint.

Senior Hurriyet Conference leader, Shabbir Ahmad Shah addressing a mammoth public gathering at Kangan Chowk.
