
An ethnic political party in eastern Burma claims that one of their leaders was wrongfully detained by the central government and demanded that all charges against him be dropped.

The Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD) has accused the Burmese military of arbitrarily detaining and physically abusing Sai Jan, a party leader in Kengtung, under the premise of false and baseless charges.

Party representatives claim that Sai Jan was beaten by Burmese soldiers of the Infantry Battalion 245 when they entered the party office in Nam Lin Mai village without warrant on 5 May.

Nearly half of Burma’s registered companies filed income tax documents this year, according to a senior tax official. The Internal Revenue Department announced a 30 June deadline to declare all assets, with penalties for late submissions. Despite the announcements published in state media, many companies filed two months past the deadline while others simply didn’t file at all. Last year, income tax in Rangoon alone generated about 710 billion kyat (US$710 million).

Several hydro-power projects initiated by Burma’s former ruling junta have been indefinitely stopped, according to Deputy Minister of Electric Power Maw Thar Htwe. Speaking to reporters in Shan State on 23 August, the deputy minister said that two dams in Arakan State, one in Kachin State and another in Tenasserim Division have been halted because they are no longer relevant. He added that the ministry is seeking new partners to develop some other unspecified hydro projects.

Economic ministers of the 10 member states of ASEAN gathered on Naypyidaw where the 46th ASEAN Economic Ministers Meeting is due to begin. Ministers are scheduled to discuss matters related to the ASEAN Economic Community, which is projected to launch in 2015, and the implementation of free trade area agreements between the Southeast bloc and its dialogue partners, including China, Japan, India, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand.

A 300 megawatt coal power plant is soon to be built in Thaung Khng village, 40 km south of Rangoon, local media reported on Sunday. Eleven Media cited project officials who said that villagers have been informed of the project, which will be managed by Kaung Myat Thaw Myay Company, a subsidiary of Asia World. The project will comprise two 150 MW stations and could be expanded to include three other facilities. It is intended to provide electricity primarily to Rangoon.

India’s Ministry of Commerce and Industry expects to sign a long-awaited Free Trade Agreement with the Southeast Asian trade bloc later this month, The New Indian Express reported on Monday. Minister of State Nirmala Sitharaman will travel to the Burmese capital Naypyidaw on 26-27 August for an ASEAN-Indian ministerial meeting, where the treaty will be signed. The agreement indicates India’s interest in a Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership plan that extends further across Asia and the Pacific, the report said.

Burma’s Under-19 football team was given a hero’s welcome when they arrived at Rangoon airport on Sunday after lifting the Hassanal Bolkiah Trophy in Brunei. Burma won the ASEAN Youth Football Championship 2014 after beating Vietnam 4-3 in the final on Saturday, a thrilling encounter, in which Aung Thu scored the winning goal in the 82nd minute.

Thailand-based Small and Medium Enterprises Development Bank has pledged for provide 20 billion kyat (US$20 million) this year in loans for small and medium businesses in Burma starting from 27 August. According to an announcement by the bank last week, a business can apply for a loan of 20 million to 50 million kyat at an interest rate of 8.5 percent. More than 120,000 SMEs are registered in Burma making up over 99 percent of the country’s enterprises.

A load of 2.4 million stimulant tablets were seized by the navy off the coast of southeastern Burma’s Tenasserim Division last week, state-owned Myawaddy Television has reported. The seizure was the largest this year, valued at about 17 billion kyat (US$17 million). Authorities also found 70 tons of illegal timber on the Thailand-bound ship.
