
James Everett Dutschke was sentenced by Judge Sharion Aycock after telling her on May 13 that he had changed his mind about wanting to withdraw his guilty plea in the case. He also was sentenced to five years of supervised release and remains in federal custody.

Dutschke waived his right to appeal. He wasn't fined or ordered to pay restitution because he doesn't have enough money, federal prosecutor Chad Lamar said.

Unlike last week, Dutschke said little and allowed his lawyer to do the talking, Lamar said.

The 42-year-old Mississippi resident sent the letters to Obama, Republican U.S. Sen. Roger Wicker and Mississippi judge Sadie Holland in what prosecutors have said was an elaborate plot to frame a rival, Paul Kevin Curtis. Poisoned letters addressed to Obama and Wicker were intercepted before delivery, but one letter reached Holland. She was not harmed.

Aycock had already signalled that she intended to accept the original plea, and Lamar said that Aycock found the outcome to be balanced.

"She found our agreement to be a fair sentence and one that represented the severity of the crime committed," Lamar said after the hearing.

In a half-hour speech, the former martial arts instructor told the judge that federal prosecutors lied when they said he made the poison and about finding his DNA on a dust mask. He renewed accusations that Elvis impersonator and entertainer Curtis had committed the crimes.

Curtis, a Corinth resident, was initially arrested by federal prosecutors but was abruptly released after officials found no physical evidence of ricin in his home.

Although he pointed the finger at Curtis, Dutschke also argued last week that he had only used castor beans to make a fertilizer that couldn't hurt anyone, not a true form of the poison ricin.

At the end of the May 13 hearing, Aycock had told Dutschke to file a formal motion asking to withdraw his plea. A decision on that motion would have been up to the judge.

But Dutschke had a change of heart. On Friday, defense attorney Ken Coghlan sent a letter to Aycock saying his client would stick with the guilty plea.

Coghlan declined to comment further.

Pulling back the plea could have opened Dutschke to a possible life sentence as well as a longer sentence in a state court proceeding where he had pleaded guilty to fondling charges. Though the plea agreements were separate, Aycock said the Lee County deal was linked to the federal plea.

State prosecutors have recommended that Dutschke serve his proposed 20-year sentence in the unrelated fondling case at the same time he serves any penalty on the federal charges.
