
A good jingle can stick in your head virtually forever. I did my best to compile a list of 9 that have shaped the advertising landscape in the city and have remained stuck in our heads after many decades. Did I miss one? Let me know in comments!

Lawson's Roll On Big O'

I'm honestly too young to remember this old Lawson's commercial but remember the old stores rather fondly. I also remember my older sister singing this song often as it is a Cleveland commercial classic. While Lawson's are no longer in operation here, there branded chip dip sold at Circle K stores area-wide is still the best around.

If you were like me and watched a lot of WUAB growing up as a kid in the early 1980s you probably remember the cotton club jingle very well. Cotton Club is still around but not as prevalent since the Cleveland company sold out their operations to American Bottling and moved their factory to Columbus.

Probably the undisputed top jingle of all time in Cleveland is the Garfield 1 song. Everyone in the Cleveland area native over the age of 30 probably can still sing this to this day.

If you are a car dealer, there is a good chance that you have a good jingle and Liberty Ford has the best one in town if you ask me.

Ed Mullinax is no longer and that means no more of the songs that were played constantly during the Indians lean years. I couldn't find entire song, but if you click in and you know it you can sing "I've got a Ford on my mind, Ed Mullinax is a friend of mine" for yourself.

Spitzer's "Our World Revolves You" song is surprisingly nowhere to be found on the interwebs. I'm sure if you watched television or listened radio, the song is already in your head after reading about it.

Ganley's "We Make Buying Fun" was a staple of the 1990s on radio and tv. You can listen again 25 seconds in on this YouTube clip.

Marc's is Northeast Ohio's most popular discount store. They, of course, say you can have fun for your money and save by shopping there.

The IX Indoor Amusement Park has been going strong for three decades and has a song that most Clevelanders know very well.
