
“I think that more than just selling a book, I think I’m really interested in the personal therapy here,” the former Fed chairman said Monday at a conference on monetary policy hosted by former President George W. Bush’s policy institute in Dallas. “I really want to go back and think through all these decisions and recognizing that many of them were made under very tight timelines under very difficult circumstances, try to understand where we did the right thing, where we made mistakes, try to really come to grips with all of this.

His as-yet-untitled book, set for release next year, will cover his years at the Fed and his response to the 2008 economic crisis.

Bernanke stepped down in January after eight years as Fed chairman. He started his career at the Fed in 2002, when he joined the board of governors. He was appointed chairman in 2006 by Bush, a Republican, and reappointed four years later by President Barack Obama, a Democrat.

“It’s really hard now to remember how black the situation was in October of 2008,” Bernanke said.

Bush also spoke at the conference and recalled a meeting with Bernanke during the financial crisis.

“Relying on the Fed to take care of all these problems — income distribution, long-term growth, the fact that the Nationals are only in second place, all that — the Fed cannot do all those things. If people are concerned about these distributional issues, we’ve got educational policy, we’ve got immigration policy, we’ve got [job] training policy. There’s lots of stuff that can be done in Washington to address these issues,” Bernanke said.

Former Federal Reserve Chief Ben Bernanke answers questions during a discussion with Joshua Bolten, managing director Rock Creek Global Advisors, at the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas. .

We welcome your comments on this story, but please be civil. Do not use profanity, hate speech, threats, personal abuse, images, internet links or any device to draw undue attention. Our policy requires those wishing to post here to use their real identity.
