
WEST Moreton Hospital and Health Service is looking fit for the future with new data showing big improvements in elective surgery waiting times.

A recent Queensland Health report shows 100% of urgent and non-urgent patients received surgery on time between January and March. The result was a significant step up from the health facility's performance two years ago, which was pegged at 88%.

Figures also showed a big improvement in the number of patients seen on time who were waiting for surgery considered "semi-urgent" - up from 77% in 2012 to 99% this year.

West Moreton Health Service chairwoman Dr Mary Corbett said the results were a testament to the hard work and dedication of staff.

She said the improvements were also the outcome of innovation, working smarter, changes in hospital processes and the clinical redesign of the health facility.

Health Minister Lawrence Springborg said the data demonstrated that Queensland was well on the way to having the best free public health system in the nation.

He said improvements had been seen not only in the area of elective surgery waiting times but across all health services.

"This is a great outcome for West Moreton patients and a fantastic turnaround from just two years ago," he said.

"In 2012, West Moreton reported just 63% of emergency department patients being seen, treated, discharged or admitted within the four-hour National Emergency Access Target. This year the figure has improved to 83% for the same quarter."

Mr Springborg said the state's health record had changed from one of the worst performing to one of the best in the country.

He said there was a similar success story to tell when it came to dental health.

"The number of West Moreton patients waiting for two years or more on the general care dental waiting list is down from 3512 in March 2013 to zero in March 2014."

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© The Queensland Times Pty Limited 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
