
A highly contagious fungal disease is wiping out Central America’s coffee plants, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) warned Sunday, with dramatic implications for the coffee-dependent. That includes agricultural workers in Latin America and the Caribbean, whose livelihood is at risk, and the consumers of premium coffee, who may have to start paying even more to support their habit.

Big farmers hire fewer workers to pick the ripe coffee cherries that enclose the beans. Smaller farmers go into debt and sell livestock or tools to make up for the lost income. Sales fall at local merchants. Teenagers leave school to work on the farm because their parents can no longer hire outside help. At the very end of the chain are the landless migrant workers who earn just a few dollars a day.

Coffee growers have attacked the problem for a number of angles, from spraying fungicides to managing shade trees, which appear to slow the spread of the fungus. Once infected, plants can require years to recover, and by the time the disease itself is discovered on a crop,  it’s often too late .

Meanwhile, the world is ramping up its efforts to join the fight against coffee rust. USAID is teaming up with Texas A&M University’s World Coffee Research to the tune of $5 million to develop new, rust-resistant coffee varieties, Reuters reports , as well as to step up Latin America’s ability to monitor and respond to outbreaks. According to USAID, this latest effort brings the grand total of its contributions to $14 million.

Yep. This sort of thing has happened before, to devastating effect — a 19th century outbreak is the reason why they drink tea in England — but as is so often the case, climate change is exacerbating the problem this time around. The hallmarks of climate change as it’s currently being experienced: warming temperatures, along with an increase in extreme rainfall,  help the fungus thrive and spread to higher altitudes , allowing it to infect more crops in more areas.

It’s hard not to see it as a bellwether of future crises.

Copyright © 2014 Salon Media Group, Inc. Reproduction of material from any Salon pages without written permission is strictly prohibited.

SALON ® is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as a trademark of Salon Media Group Inc.
