
A Virginia high school student had high hopes this year for a prom date, choosing to ask Vice President Joe Biden to accompany her to the dance.

The 17-year-old senior moved quick to invite him to prom, sending the vice president a witty handwritten note last spring in hopes he would take her to the Newington High School dance.

Maselli even warned Biden that if he declined her invitation, she would ask Republican Speaker of the House John Boehner to fill his shoes.

“And we can’t have that now can we,” she quipped.

According to the Courant , Maselli never expected to receive a response from the White House, considering her letter to be more of a joke more than anything.

That’s why she was surprised when her doorbell rang on the eve of prom. At roughly 10 a.m., she opened the door to greet a deliveryman holding a wrist corsage, the Courant reported .

Inside was a note from Biden.

The vice president even invited the 17-year-old to visit him at the White House.

At first Maselli thought someone was playing a prank on her. But, when she called the number listed as Biden’s assistant on another card, she realized it was not.

A spokesperson later told the Courant that Biden read the 17-year-old’s letter and was personally touched. So touched, in fact, that he personally picked the corsage composed of white roses, baby’s breath and red, white and blue ribbons.

“He wanted her to feel special at her prom, even though he wasn’t able to come,” the spokeswoman told the Courant .

Ultimately, Maselli didn’t end up even going to prom.

Spread the word!

Unfortunately, TheBlaze is not available on .

But you can help! Call at or press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

But you can help! Press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

I would like to receive news and information from TheBlaze.

Please try again later.

Give us a Scoop!

Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.
