
Milwaukee, WI /PRNewswire/ - BRP (TSX: DOO) was named today the 2014 winner of the Wisconsin Business Friend of the Environment Award for the unique emissions sampling equipment it developed in support of the U.S. Department of Energy's search for a more environmentally friendly gasoline alternative.

"BRP is making great strides in the areas of marine engine emission reductions and biofuel research," said Eric Bott, Director of Environmental and Energy Policy for Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce. "They're not just improving the efficiency of their engines or viability of new potential fuels. They're inventing the testing equipment necessary to prove these advancements."

The emissions sampling equipment was developed at BRP's Evinrude facility in Sturtevant to research isobutanol, a biologically produced alternative fuel being tested in engines to identify if it could be a cleaner, more environmentally friendly substitute for gasoline.

"This is the first instrument designed specifically to measure and quantify engine exhaust emissions from in-use recreational boats," said Jeff Wasil, BRP's Engineering Manager on the project. "We are working closely with the National Marine Manufacturers Association and the American Boat and Yacht Council on a comprehensive test program which is leading toward a better understanding of exhaust emissions from recreational marine products."

The award recognizes businesses that demonstrate environmental soundness in pollution prevention, innovative technology and environmental stewardship. The program aims to communicate to businesses, state policymakers and the public that these environmentally conscious practices have a positive impact on Wisconsin.

This award reaffirms BRP's commitment to using ground-breaking technology to support environmental sustainability.

BRP's Evinrude engine lineup from 3.5 to 300 horsepower offers customers superior value across a full range of applications. Engines are available at authorized Evinrude dealerships worldwide. Become part of the online Evinrude community at  www.evinrudenation.com  and follow us on Facebook at  www.facebook.com/brpevinrude .

BRP (TSX: DOO) is a global leader in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of powersports vehicles and propulsion systems. Its portfolio includes Ski-Doo and Lynx snowmobiles, Sea-Doo watercraft, Can-Am all-terrain and side-by-side vehicles, Can-Am Spyder roadsters, Evinrude and Rotax marine propulsion systems as well as Rotax engines for karts, motorcycles and recreational aircraft. BRP supports its line of products with a dedicated parts, accessories and clothing business. With annual sales of over CA$3 billion from 105 countries, the Company employs approximately 7,100 people worldwide.
