
Richert doesn’t believe the claim is accurate today. I disagree – the claim was correct in February and I stand by my analysis and prediction of how popular Honour’s position on MNSure would be with Republicans.

I accurately represented the story from the Associated Press about the candidates’ positions on MNSure, as the story specifically mentioned that Honour’s position differed from his Republican rivals.

The fissure on health care became apparent this week when Republican businessman Scott Honour strongly advocated replacing the state-run online marketplace, MNsure, with one managed by the federal government. His four main rivals flinched at the idea of relinquishing state control, with Rep. Kurt Zellers and former Rep. Marty Seifert unequivocally ruling it out as a possibility if they win.

What’s also missing from Richert’s story is any acknowledgment that Johnson, Thompson and Zellers have all clarified and changed their positions on MNSure over the last few months.

Jeff Johnson linked to the story from the Associated Press on his Facebook page and criticized other Republican candidates for wanting to “scrap” MNSure, which Johnson claimed would “hurt Minnesotans forced into the exchange by DFL policy.” Johnson’s position on MNSure has changed since the original story from the Associated Press and my post analyzing the position of the candidates. According to Johnson’s website, he now supports repealing MNSure , a policy position he previously criticized.

In the original story from the Associated Press, Dave Thompson’s position on MNSure, was focused on “remodeling MNsure”, not repealing it. As with Johnson, Thompson’s position has changed on MNSure. On May 2, Thompson answered a question on Facebook about MNSure and wrote “[w]e need to eliminate MNSure.”  Thompson has shifted from “remodeling” MNsure to eliminating MNSure.

Kurt Zellers “responded most aggressively” to Honour’s position of repealing MNSure and move Minnesota to the federal healthcare exchange  in the story from the Associated Press . At the time, Zellers offered a hybrid approach of tax incentives, connected with a push for a repeal of MNSure. The article noted that Zellers had not released a formal health care plan and months later, no other specifics have been released.

MNSure is going to be one of the marquee issues in the race for governor and three candidates, Honour, Seifert and Dayton have clear positions. Over the last few months, Johnson, Thompson and Zellers have not articulated consistent and realistic positions on alternatives to MNSure. For some of these candidates, time is running out.

Please check back to politics.mn for additional analysis and information on the 2014 elections.

The Weekly Wrap is a weekly e-mail sent every Friday from politics.mn. The Weekly Wrap features the top political stories of the week. Subscribe below to receive The Weekly Wrap.

Please provide a valid email address.

Thank you, your sign-up request was successful! Please check your e-mail inbox.

Please complete the CAPTCHA.

Authored by Michael Brodkorb, politics.mn is a blog focused on providing an inside perspective on Minnesota politics. Read more.
