
This week they will become part of a new national monument.

President Obama will sign a proclamation Wednesday establishing the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument, a White House official said in an email to the Sun-News on Monday morning.

Obama's decision represents a victory for the group that has spent nearly a decade pushing for greater federal protection of the nearly 500,000 acres contained within the monument area. They say the designation will protect the area's history, culture and scientific resources, while benefiting the local economy and maintaining recreational activities.

But opponents fear access restrictions they say are part of national monument status will hurt area law enforcement efforts and ranching.

The issue has been contentious for years, and been the subject of many failed pieces of federal legislation. Most recently, members of the New Mexico delegation offered two bills on the matter: One in December by New Mexico Sens. Tom Udall and Martin Heinrich, both Democrats, sought an expansive version with large wilderness areas. U.S. Rep. Steve Pearce, R-N.M., introduced a smaller, more limited monument proposal on March 6, 2013, that protected the Organ Mountains only.

Officials haven't seen what's in Obama's proclamation, but said Monday they expect it to follow the bill by Udall and Heinrich, which protects nearly half a million mostly rugged acres in Doña Ana County.

Pearce's bill covered the area closest to the Organ Mountains, about a tenth of the acreage covered by the opposing legislation.

"It's a very exciting development for all those who have done so much for the past decade," Heinrich said in a phone interview Monday.

An array of organizations sent statements in support of the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument in response to Monday's news from the White House.

Several environmentalist and Hispanic cultural groups celebrated.

"This new monument will enable countless generations of citizens to enjoy and learn from our diverse Chihuahuan Desert wild lands, and the rich history and archaeological sites that exist in them," said N.M. Rep. Jeff Steinborn, D-Las Cruces, in a prepared statement from the New Mexico Wilderness Alliance — he is that organization's director in southern New Mexico. "We extend our heartfelt gratitude to President Obama and Sens. Udall and Heinrich for their visionary leadership."

Religious leaders and a nonprofit group that serves veterans cheered, too, saying the move preserves areas important to the area's culture and history.

"We're protecting the skyline," Steinborn said in a phone interview Monday.

Included in national monument will be the Organ Mountains; the Robledo Mountains northwest of Las Cruces, the Doña Ana Mountains north of Las Cruces; the Potrillo Mountains in the southwestern part of the county; and the Sierra de Las Uvas Mountains in the Hatch region. Those areas are owned and administered by the federal Bureau of Land Management.

Said Udall in a prepared statement: "The Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument will put the unique and spectacular desert landscapes of southern New Mexico on recreation maps around the world, attracting tourists to the region, creating jobs and bringing in millions of dollars in tourism revenue."

Udall was referring to a recent independent study suggesting that a national monument could generate $7.4 million in new economic activity.

Pearce, in a statement released Monday afternoon, called Obama's decision "misguided."

"For years, I have worked to find a collaborative solution to permanently protect the Organ Mountains and promote true economic opportunity for my constituents," Pearce said in the statement. "With this land grab, the president is once again going out of his way to derail any attempt to form a consensus, and do what local people want. Residents of Doña Ana County deserve the assurance that first responders and Border Patrol can protect the public, flood control structures will be maintained, ranchers will have their grazing rights, and hunters can have the access they've always enjoyed."

Obama is planning to sign the proclamation at an unspecified Department of Interior event Wednesday. His action is in line with authority granted to him under the Antiquities Act, federal legislation signed in 1906 by President Theodore Roosevelt.

The president can declare a national monument under the act, but only Congress can designate wilderness areas. In a national monument, camping, backpacking, hunting, fishing and horseback riding are allowed, as is riding in motorized vehicles on designated roads. Existing uses, such as grazing, are maintained. In a wilderness, use of mechanized equipment is limited to retain the "primeval character and influence" of the land.

A survey taken in January showed 72 percent of county residents supported the Organ Mountain-Desert Peaks national monument proposal.

Doña Ana County Sheriff Todd Garrison is among the more vocal opponents of the monument. An avid outdoorsman — his office is festooned in photos and mounts taken during his hunting trips over the years — Garrison wants to see the land protected.

"But I don't think it should be this close to the border," Garrison said.

Deputies patrol those areas, he said, and they encounter drug trafficking and people attempting to illegally cross the border. Once those areas become part of a national monument, Garrison added, his deputies won't have the same access for those patrols, clearing avenues for criminals, including Mexican drug cartels.

Along with the problems they pose for public safety, increased criminal traffic in the desert areas will hurt the land.

"The lands they're trying to promote will be torn up and misused by people that don't give a flip about them anyway," Garrison said.

He noted that Arizona and Texas national monuments have experienced the same problems.

Garrison said he was also frustrated by the process, saying those promoting the Organ Mountain-Desert Peaks National Monument have never sought input from local law enforcement and haven't listened to letters he has submitted.

Proponents often refer to federal law enforcement agencies, but those won't be the ones responsible for investigating crimes in the area, Garrison added.

Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell visited the monument areas in January and met with federal law enforcement officials to talk about the importance of providing law enforcement and border security, a Department of the Interior official said.

Jewell will be back in the area Friday for a celebration. Details have not been announced.

Steinborn said the national monument designation won't change how the public uses these lands, referring to those who depend on the land for their livelihood, such as ranchers, and those who use those areas for recreation. Rather, he said, it "locks them in ... It protects these activities forever."

Steinborn said the BLM will spend the next year creating a management plan, and that process is public; meetings will be scheduled and citizens can voice their concerns.

But Garrison is dubious.
