
PLANS to transform a derelict military base in the Hampshire countryside have been approved after the site was branded an eyesore.

Civic chiefs have approved an outline application to demolish most of the buildings at the old RAF Sopley and replace them with 80 homes – half of which will be affordable properties.

The district council has previously had to take enforcement action against businesses operating illegally on the 28-acre site in Derritt Lane, Bransgore.

But others have been granted lawful development certificates and 11 of the 91 huts will be retained for employment use.

Now known as Merryfield Park, the former RAF camp occupies green belt land next to part of the New Forest National Park.

A report to members of the district council said that the application to redevelop the site had resulted in nearly 40 letters of support.

Senior council officers hit back at claims made by their opposite numbers at the National Park Authority (NPA), who had objected to the scale of the proposed development, saying that it would have an adverse impact on the national park and the green belt.

But head of development control Chris Elliott said: “I’ll be blunt – the NPA has assessed this incorrectly.

“The scheme will have less impact than the existing development.

Councillors who praised the application included Pat Wyeth, who is also chairman of the NPA’s planning committee.

RAF Sopley was used to house some of the Vietnamese boat people after they arrived in the UK in the late 1970s.

All of the 80 homes should be affordable, sadly all estates being built are a business enterprise and the last people considered are local or young, its a big profit that is considered first and foremost! The affordable home bit is often just lip service, if the whole lot were put as affordable it would make more sense to the local community and help ease the problem of so many young adults still living at home and being homeless!

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
