
Click image to enlarge.

George Muth and Charlie Jones are in that slice of Wisconsin agriculture known for multigeneration family farms.

And increasingly, they are facing a less certain future, as the cost of producing milk and meat has risen dramatically, often at odds with the prices farmers receive for their products in global commodities markets.

Muth is a fifth-generation dairy farmer in Cheeseville, northeast of West Bend. He and his son Peter have about 200 cows — a big enough farm to require increasingly expensive new equipment and land, but not always big enough to afford it.

"That is kind of an issue for us," Muth said.

Jones, who began farming in Washington County three years ago with his mother, Michelle (Kraemer) Jones, milks about 80 cows. In the long run, Jones said, he will probably aim for roughly 300 cows so the farm generates enough income to keep up with new technologies and rising costs.

"It's getting to the point where you have to milk that many cows to stay in business," Jones said.

Changes in Wisconsin's farming landscape were clearly shown in the recent agricultural census that revealed the number of farms 50 to 179 acres in size fell 14% from 2007 to 2012, and the number of farms 10 to 49 acres fell more than 10% over that five-year period.

Wisconsin had about 69,800 farms in 2012, roughly 8,700 less than in 2007, the year covered by the previous census.

Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi and Alaska had comparable losses.

That raises many concerns, because the lack of affordable land is the biggest barrier to young farmers' getting started, and it's a big issue for small and medium-size farms seeking to expand, said Kara O'Connor, government relations director for Wisconsin Farmers Union , a Chippewa Falls-based farming organization.

Large farms have accounted for a higher percentage of farmland use and food production. At the other end of the spectrum there's been growth in the number of small farms with specialty products, such as organic fruits and vegetables, sold directly to the public.

"The people who are really being squeezed are in the middle," O'Connor said, referring to medium-size farms like the ones Muth and Jones run that don't always have the financial resources to cover rising costs of land, livestock feed and equipment.

"If you are one of those folks in the middle, and you're thinking about expanding, you could be competing for land with (non-farm) investors who have a big pile of cash that needs a home," O'Connor said.

In Washington County, the number of farms fell 14% to 712 in the recent census, but the amount of land in farming fell less than 3% as bigger farms accounted for more acreage.

Some large dairy farms in southeastern Wisconsin have bid up land rents to $250 an acre, an amount that smaller operations can't afford, according to local farmers. There's also pressure on land prices from housing developments and other business interests.

Ross Bishop, who raises beef cattle in Washington County, says one of his neighbors with a small dairy farm has struggled to afford increasingly high land rents for raising livestock feed.

"I am afraid that's going to happen to me eventually," Bishop said.

The number of Wisconsin farms with milk cows shrank by 18% from 14,158 in 2007 to 11,543 in 2012, with some of the change from consolidation in the industry as farmers formed one operation from two or more smaller ones.

The state added nearly 21,000 dairy cows even as the number of farms shrank, though, bringing the population to roughly 1.3 million animals. Most farms remained small, with fewer than 100 cows, but about 30% of the herd is kept on farms with 500 or more cows each.

The average age for a Wisconsin farmer now is 56 years old.

owned by middle-age farmers who don't have someone to take over the business when they retire, according to agriculture experts.

Often, small farms can't support more than a few family members at a time. A growing number of large farms, though, are run by siblings, cousins and other relatives working together.

Most of Wisconsin's farms are family-owned, but nearly half — 48.6% — are run by more than one person.

"When you look at the average age of a farmer, and about a 200-acre farm, that's a single-family unit. And if you can't bring family members back into the operation, or it can't afford to support them, it could be the farm has run its course," said Kevin Jarek, a University of Wisconsin Extension agent in Outagamie County.

The number of Wisconsin farms 1,000 to 1,999 acres increased nearly 13% in the recent census, while the number of farms 2,000 acres or more grew more than 20% in the five-year period.

Often, large farms are better able to withstand droughts and other catastrophes, according to farm experts.

They're also better positioned to take advantage of new technologies. Dairy farming, in particular, is very capital intensive, said Bruce Jones, an agricultural economist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

Still, agriculture officials said they were surprised at the drop in the number of small farms, especially since the state had 1,180 organic operations in 2012 — more than any other state except California — and those farms typically have less acreage than conventional farms.

"We thought that number (of small farms) would have remained steady or increased with the growing interest and popularity of local and regional foods and community supported agriculture," said Ben Brancel, secretary of the state Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection.

A farm is defined by the USDA as any place from which $1,000 of agricultural goods were produced and sold, or normally would have been sold, in a year. Wisconsin farmers averaged $44,058 net cash income per farm in 2012, up from $34,909 in 2007 and slightly more than the national average of $43,750.

John Peck, executive director of the Madison-based group Family Farm Defenders , says farms in the future will be in two broad categories: big operations that cater to commodity markets, and small operations that carve out a living in areas such as organic products and community-supported agriculture.

Peck worries about the future of conventional farms that are too small to remain profitable in a global marketplace.

"The Thomas Jefferson version of the family farm that was the bedrock of this nation is disappearing," Peck said.

© 2014 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.

Get today's business headlines delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday during the noon hour – or whenever there’s big breaking news.

Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!

Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.
