
Overall, UTSA ranks No. 7 in the nation for the number of undergraduate and graduate degrees awarded to Hispanic students. UTSA earned this top ranking for awarding degrees to 2,330 Hispanic undergraduate and graduate students out of 5,406 students total in 2011-2012, which represented 43 percent of the university's graduating class.

UTSA also ranks No. 7 for the number of undergraduate Hispanic students enrolled and No. 10 for the number of Hispanic graduate students enrolled. Hispanic student enrollment is 47 percent of the total undergraduate population and 35 percent of the total graduate population at UTSA.

"UTSA provides its students with top-tier education and research opportunities," said Lisa Firmin, UTSA associate provost for faculty and student diversity and recruitment. "We are pleased to be shaping the lives of so many young Hispanic students and helping change the face of our country's leaders in all professional fields."

Each year, the Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education surveys the Top 100 predominantly Hispanic-serving four-year colleges and universities in the United States and Puerto Rico. It obtains the information for its rankings from the U.S. Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics (NCES).

Other UT System schools that were also ranked among the top 100 are the University of Texas at El Paso (No. 4), the University of Texas-Pan American (No. 5), the University of Texas at Brownsville (No. 9) and the University of Texas at Austin (No. 13).

UTSA Today is the official news source of The University of Texas at San Antonio.

The Office of University Communications and Marketing is the official  source of news and information for The University of Texas at San  Antonio, providing services in media relations, internal communications,  publications, social media, marketing, photography and videography.

As The University of Texas at San Antonio progresses toward Tier  One ranking as a research institution, the Office of University  Communications and Marketing promotes awareness, understanding and  support of the university's mission to advance knowledge through  research and discovery, teaching and learning, community engagement and  public service.
