
While many Americans will celebrate Memorial Day with pool parties and barbecues, members of the organization Jewish War Veterans of the USA will observe the holiday by honoring and remembering fallen solders of Jewish faith at various grave sites and cemeteries.

The holiday also has a personal meaning for JWV's national commander and Miami resident Dr. Robert Pickard (Col. US Army Retired), who had friends who served and killed in the Vietnam War.

"It has a personal meaning to me in terms of the soldiers who I knew who went to Vietnam," he said of the holiday. "There were friends I knew who served and were killed in Vietnam."

Pickard, who will memorialize fallen soldiers at Arlington National Cemetery on Memorial Day, served in the Air Force from 1966-68 during the Vietnam War and was stationed at RAF Chicksands Dispensary in the midlands of England as the medical officer for that AF Security Service base. Pickard, an Ear, Nose, and Throat specialist whose office is in South Miami, also served on the Florida National Coast Guard and retired as a Colonel 06 in 2000. He is a life member of Post 243 in Coral Gables where he has previously served as post commander. He has also served as chairman of the Vietnam Veterans Committee, as a member of the National Executive Committee and is past editor of The Jewish Veteran. He was elected as the JWV's national commander at its 118th annual convention in August, 2013. He said his experience so far in this position has been extremely exciting.

"Although it's been taxing, it is very enjoyable," he added. "I've been honored and humbled to be their national commander and to represent thousands of Jewish veterans from all over the country."

The organization was founded in 1896 by Jewish Civil War veterans and Pickard comes from a JWV family as his father, Ted, was department commander of Illinois and his mother, Lena, was president of the Illinois JWVA. Pickard mentioned three basic parts of the organization's mission that he would like to push forward as national commander.

"The first part is that we fight and stand for the good name of the Jew and specifically the Jewish veteran," he said. "It's been centuries of abuse of Jews and lies about us that we don't serve in the military and so on. We do. The second part is that we stand and we fight for the good and welfare of all the soldiers, not just the Jewish ones, in the field to make sure that they have the tools to do the job that they need to do. The third part is that we fight for the rightfully earned benefits of veterans of any faith when they come home from the field."

Pickard feels that all Jewish veterans should be members of the organization.

"Whether they spend one day on active duty or in the reserve or in the national guard, every single one of those guys [Jewish veterans] out there should be a member of Jewish War Veterans because we stand for them," he said.

Luis Lalama, president of the Miami Chapter of Vietnam Veterans of America, praised Pickard.

"He's a good man, a good friend and I have a great deal of respect for Dr. Pickard," he said.
