
He said that the American public needs answers, 'Let’s be clear: She is going to have to cough up these medical records and describe this, if this was that serious'

Clinton's reps says she is '100 per cent'

Karl Rove has reiterated comments about Hillary Clinton's health that drew ire from her husband Bill Clinton last week.

He began by giving an oddly forensic and lengthy description of Clinton's movements in 2012 at the time she was ill.

'I’m not questioning her health,' he said, although he appeared to be doing just that.

'What I’m questioning is whether or not it’s a done deal that she’s running, and she would not be human if she did not take this into consideration.'

Bill Clinton ridiculed Rove's speculation at his wife's fitness to run.

'First, they said she faked her concussion and now they say she is auditioning for her part on The Walking Dead,' Bill Clinton said at the Peter G. Peterson Foundation’s 2014 Fiscal Summit.

'I must be in really tough shape because she is still quicker than I am.'

Rove said, 'I love being lectured by Bill Clinton that this is off-limits: "You can’t talk about her health. You can’t talk about her age." Let’s remember this is a guy who ran for reelection by savaging Bob Dole. [He] looked like Methuselah in the Clinton TV ads,' indicating that, as host Chris Wallace hypothesized, Rove's speculation is merely a political play.

Despite his own stated confidence in Hillary Clinton's health and fitness to run, Rove maintained that the American public needs answers.

'Let’s be clear: She is going to have to cough up these medical records and describe this, if this was that serious,' Rove said.

Dick and Lynn Cheney also appeared on the panel and Cheney, who suffered his own health problems while vice president gave his take on the issue.

'I think any presidential candidate or vice presidential candidate is going to have to answer questions about their health,' he said. 'I wouldn’t want to pre-judge Mrs. Clinton’s health. I don’t know about it.'

A prominent New York ophthalmologist said in an interview yesterday that a special pair of glasses worn by Clinton are the type used to treat the double vision sometimes caused by severe head trauma.

'In order to see one object, your eyes need to be pointed in the same  direction. If your eyes are misaligned, one way to optically align them  is to put a prism ... on your glasses,' he said.

The comments fueled speculation by Rove about her time in the hospital in December 2012.

She was reportedly fighting a stomach virus when she fell at home, hit her head, and suffered a concussion.

A blood clot was later found behind her right ear.

'Any issue which raises intracranial pressure can damage one of the  nerves which moves the eye around, and if it damages one of the nerves,  your eyes will be misaligned -- maybe temporarily, maybe more  permanently,' he said.

Rover has argued that Clinton's health may be an issue if she runs for the presidency in 2016.

'This was a serious deal. She basically was out of action,' the former George W. Bush administration adviser said  Tuesday. 'She spends over a month fighting this. ...And they're not  particularly forthcoming.'

Clinton's reps have defended her, saying she's at '100 per cent.'

Former president and husband Bill Clinton went so far as to say there was 'nothing' to the health issue.

Dr. Werner said if he was given access to her medical records he would want to see imaging studies.

'I would like to know what the results of any imaging studies were  and the cause of why someone needed Fresnel,' he said. 'There are  lots of different causes, anything from Myasthenia to Multiple Sclerosis  to maybe a blood clot, these are all possible causes, but all we know  is that she was using a Fresnel prism and therefore had double vision.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
