
Johannesburg - The man kidnapped and assaulted, allegedly by Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir and five others, was on Monday questioned about permanent injuries he said he sustained.

Annelene van den Heever, for Krejcir, questioned State witness Bheki Lukhele in the High Court in Johannesburg, sitting in Palm Ridge, on injuries he said he sustained, allegedly at Krejcir's hands.

Krejcir, Desai Luphondo, warrant officers Samuel Modise Maropeng and George Nthoroane, Jan Lefu Mofokeng, and Siboniso Miya are charged with dealing in drugs, and the attempted murder and kidnapping of Lukhele.

“Did you sustain permanent injuries or marks from this assault on you with boiling water?” she asked.

“Yes, there were some,” he answered.

He pointed to his left shoulder and said there were marks underneath his clothes. He earlier told the court that Krejcir poured boiling water over his head while he was being held captive in June last year.

Van den Heever continued her cross-examination of Lukhele by asking him what kind of marks he had and if they were visible. Lukhele described his marks as black spots and said they were visible on his shoulders and back.

When Van den Heever continued to ask about visible marks, Lamont asked if she wanted Lukhele to be examined by the district surgeon. She said yes.

Lamont said Lukhele should be examined and a report compiled.

Lukhele said he was injured on top of his head and his skin peeled off.

He said he wore a hat to cover it up.

Van den Heever asked Lukhele about the doctor he went to see after he was released following his kidnapping.

Lukhele earlier told the court he was kidnapped from his Katlehong home on June 25 last year by Krejcir and his five co-accused.

Lukhele's brother Doctor worked for a cargo company at OR Tambo International airport. He apparently disappeared with 25kg of crystal methamphetamine (tik) he was supposed to help transport to Australia, allegedly for Krejcir.

Lukhele was allegedly held at Krejcir's Money Point gold exchange business in Bedfordview, Johannesburg, in June last year, and tortured in a bid to have him reveal his brother's whereabouts.

Lamont ordered that images of Lukhele not be published because he is in witness protection.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
