
Be sure to join us here today at 4 p.m. for an online town hall meeting discussing America's reaction to the Ferguson shooting and ensuing protests.

Danford Grant appears on court on May 7, 2014.

SEATTLE (AP) - A Seattle lawyer who pleaded guilty to raping five women at massage parlors has been sentenced to 25 years in prison.

Danford Grant pleaded guilty May 7 to third-degree rape charges as his trial was beginning on first-degree rape charges that could have brought a life sentence.

Grant was formally sentenced Monday in King County Superior Court.

The 49-year-old is a married father of three and former partner in a Seattle law firm who once worked in the Seattle city attorney's office. He admitted raping the five women in 2011 and 2012.

If I was the wife of this freak, I'd take the kids and move out of town. Â Couldn't bear the shame of assisting (by moving the car and hiding evidence) a rapist. Â Really gross, lady. Â May Karma descend upon you for your complicity in his crimes.

49 years old now, 25 years - 1/5 for good behavior (20 years total). If not already deceased, he'll be out when he is 69. Too old to start over specially as a registered sex offender. His wife will have long divorced and taken most, if not all of his assets. Wouldn't surprise me if she was in the process now.

I'm sure in his ill minded way, he figured that he had bought the women's bodies for an hour each and so he acted out his rape fantasies on them forgetting that "buying their bodies" was in fact, a fantasy in itself.

Raping the women was using sex as his weapon.Â  The extreme and warped abuse of power.Â  His motivation for his crimes I'm sure is deep seated from his past, probably dating back to childhood years.

He will make an excellent jailhouse lawyer for sure.Â  I'm also sure he will have many "protectors" in prison who will keep him safe in exchange for his services.

I feel sorry for the women he victimized as well as his kids because they are victims too.Â  The wife....not so much.

In the photo above it appears his lawyer may have just cracked a funny to him.

Nice. A happy ending that we can all enjoy together.

@Technically_Correct Â  Beside Danford Grant I wonder who some of the other clients might have been? Maybe Ann Rule will write a book on this.

@Wendy R. Â I don't feel one bit sorry for Jennifer Grant.

@YOLO Â Here is his wife, now a judge in Seattle "Jennifer Grant resigned her position as a supervising prosecutor for the Seattle City Attorney's office in June, months before the results of an internal investigation were made public, and long before the prosecutor in her husband's case determined "relocation of the car and the removal of items is potentially evidence of consciousness of guilt and/or tampering with evidence.""

@wetrock Â It must have been during the time they were describing the attacks.Â  He was probably reliving it him mind and getting his rocks off all over again.

While not seeming appropriate, some people get a smile or a smirk look about them when they are seriously nervous or scared. I'll be he's a little of both, deservedly so.

@joejoe Â Just so you know - I flagged your comment. Not that I disagree with the sentiment, but you could've shown some class to the rest of the public when expressing yourself instead of vulgar terminology.

@elizamae Â KOMO ran a previous story when the deal was reached.

@Can't Spell Don't Care @Tuesday I can't speak for Wendy R, but I believe she' referring to the fact that Jennifer, his wife, was implicated in tampering with evidence.Â  She helped move his car and allegedly removed some evidence before police could investigate.

@joejoe Â You must be a joy to hang out with.

And while you're at it, go enjoy your own world - go on, have fun!

I'm not sure if this angler took any fish home, but he sure landed a prize catch with this sunset at Golden Gardens Beach.

Seattle,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
