
THE man who made 911 calls on three occasions and made bomb threats against the Guam Superior Court Northern Satellite Court to avoid his small claims hearings was sentenced to serve 18 months in federal prison and pay $2,389 in restitution.

Michael San Nicolas Santos pleaded guilty on Nov. 14, 2013 to three counts of maliciously conveying false information by telephone.

The court ordered Santos to pay $639 to the chief of police of the Guam Police Department and $1,150 to the Judiciary of Guam, Administrative Office of the Court.

Santos was also instructed to write a letter of apology to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Guam; Presiding Judge Alberto Lamorena of the Superior Court of Guam; Hiep T. Nguyen, the owner of Pho Saigon restaurant; Fred Bordallo, the chief of police; and vendors of the Dededo Mall.

On Sept. 26, Oct. 10 and 29, Santos called 911 using a cellphone with a Docomo SIM card he purchased at a Mobil gas station. On each of those dates, Santos was scheduled to appear as a defendant in a small claims case at the Northern Satellite Court which is located in the Dededo Mall. Each of the phone calls caused the evacuation of the court and other areas of the mall, resulting in a continuance of his case.

An investigation conducted by the FBI, the Guam Police Department, E911 personnel, the Guam Fire Department and the Joint Terrorism Task Force determined that the device used to make the call on Sept. 26 was the same device used on Oct. 10 but with a different SIM card.

A subpoena to Docomo Pacific traced the SIM card to a Mobil gas station. Mobil personnel advised investigators that for the month of October they sold six SIM cards.

Agents also reviewed the receipts for each card sale and reviewed the surveillance video of the gas station. The video revealed that Santos purchased a SIM card at 9 a.m. on Oct. 10. On Oct. 17, Santos was observed buying another SIM card at the same gas station.

On Oct. 25, Judge Joaquin Manibusan issued a search warrant which authorized law enforcement personnel to search Santos' residence for the cellphone and the SIM cards he used to call E911.

On Oct. 29 he was seen purchasing another prepaid cellphone and proceeded to the Department of Revenue and Taxation parking lot. He was seen working with a cellphone and then drove around the park across the street from the Dededo Mall.

A few minutes after he was seen driving on Villagomez Road, agents were notified that E911 received another telephoned bomb threat at around 10:41 a.m. Santos went back to the Dededo Mall where he was approached by FBI agents.
