
Outspoken MDC-T returnee Job Sikhala Sunday called for unconstitutional means to remove President Robert Mugabe from power.

Speaking at a party rally in Glen View, Harare, Sikhala urged MDC-T supporters to take advantage of Mugabe's current absence from the country to remove him and install Morgan Tsvangirai as president of the country.

"Mugabe is the most entrenched dictator that I have known.

"Why should we keep a president who goes for medical checkups after every three months… this time when he comes back from Singapore, we will have taken over the country," Sikhala said before breaking into laughter.

Tsvangirai has tried to dislodge Mugabe from the presidency in three election attempts with last's year elections being the worst for the opposition MDC-T.

Sikhala said Mugabe must be dislodged from power to save the country's economy.

He said the only person who could lead such a revolt was Tsvangirai, whom he described as "our  best foot forward".

Zimbabwe's security agencies have warned the opposition against attempts to secure power through unorthodox means, including violence. Mugabe recently said his government would crush any protests meant to destabilise the country.

Apart from Sikhala, Tsvangirai recently called for mass protests against the government. In 1999 he was charged for calling for a violent removal of Mugabe and the Zanu-PF government from power.

"When the struggle started 15 years back, I also had the same view with these boys (fired secretary-general Tendai Biti and deputy treasurer-general Elton Mangoma) that in five years' time we will be in office, but I was wrong. This will take time and we will take power, even if Tsvangirai turns 90 like Mugabe, we will remain behind him," he said.

He likened the MDC-T's current scenario to Arsenal FC's nine-year trophy drought, saying though people said the team's manager Arsene Wenger should go, on Saturday he shocked the world and won a trophy.

"I want to liken our current situation with a team in England called Arsenal. They lost Thierry Henry, Patrick Vieira, Cesc Fabregas, Robin Van Persie and Alex Song.

"Those (who left) are the Mangomas, Bitis and Paul and Solomon Madzores of our party," he said, adding that "their departure (soccer players) strengthened the squad."

Tapiwa Mashakada, the party's acting secretary-general, told the rally attended by over a 1 000 people that street demonstrations and protests might work if the country's failing economy is to be rescued.

"Let's show that we are not happy, lets voice to show our concern, demonstrate your anger… that is the only way we can have an election very soon and not in 2018," he said.

Mashakada said despite the leadership turmoil charactering the party, the former prime minister in the inclusive government remained the hope and face of their struggle.

"We are not going to remove Tsvangirai now  until he goes into power and rule for two terms, then we will start to look for another  candidate,  but not until he goes to  State  House," Mashakada said.

Speaker after speaker at the rally took turns to lambast their ex-comrades now in the  MDC renewal team, accusing them of accepting bribes from Zanu-PF to sabotage the struggle.
