
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

KANSAS CITY, Mo., May 19 (Reuters) - A federal judge on Monday denied a Missouri inmate's motion to halt his execution after his lawyers argued he had a rare health condition that could lead to extreme pain and suffocation resulting from the lethal injection.

U.S. District Court Judge Beth Phillips in Kansas City also denied inmate Russell Bucklew's request to have his execution, set for 12:01 a.m. CDT on Wednesday, videotaped to record what his lawyers said could be evidence of his suffering.

Lawyers for Bucklew, a convicted rapist and murderer, said in a news release the lethal injection would violate protections in the U.S. Constitution against cruel and unusual punishment, and they would appeal the rulings.

Bucklew, 46, would be the first U.S. inmate executed since the botched April 29 execution of Oklahoma inmate Clayton Lockett, who writhed in apparent pain after what prison officials said was a ruptured vein that prevented the lethal cocktail of chemicals from being delivered properly.

Lockett, a convicted murderer, died of a heart attack 43 minutes after the injection started.

In the motion late last week, lawyer Cheryl Pilate said Bucklew has malformed blood vessels in his head and neck that can rupture under stress, causing the lethal drugs to circulate improperly in his body.

Phillips ruled there was insufficient evidence to suggest Bucklew would suffer severe and needless pain.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
