
NEW DELHI: BJP's PM-designate Narendra Modi has thanked most global leaders, including American, Russian and Japanese heads of government who congratulated him but there was no mention of Pakistan premier Nawaz Sharif who called him up after Modi's electoral success.

In individual twitter messages Modi thanked US president Barack Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry , Russian president Vladimir Putin, Japanese premier Shinzo Abe, Nepal president Ram Baran Yadav and PM Sushil Koirala, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French president Hollande, Canadian PM Stephen Harper, South African president Jacob Zuma and Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy.

Interestingly his tweets on US came hours after he tweeted on Russia and Japan and other countries. But there was no mention on twitter about any messages to Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif. The Pakistan PM had telephoned Modi and invited him to visit Islamabad.

"In our conversation, @ BarackObama & I talked about further strengthening India-USA strategic partnership that will help both nations," Modi tweeted. Obama had invited the PM designate to visit the US. Within hours of the election results on May 16, the US declared lifting of ban on visa for Modi.

"Thank you Mr Kerry. We will strengthen relations between our 2 vibrant democracies in the years to come," Modi wrote in reply to Kerry's twitter message. The new Indian External Affairs Minister will travel to Washington later this year for annual Strategic Dialogue with Kerry.

It is well known that Modi shares excellent relations with Japan and had visited the East Asian country as the Gujarat Chief Minister. He had also visited Russia thrice. "I thank President Putin for his good wishes. Looking forward to making our relations with Russia even stronger in the years to come," Modi wrote in his tweet on Monday.

Underlining the special ties with Moscow, Modi wrote, "India-Russia friendship has stood the test of time. We will further strengthen our relations in a wide range of fields". On Japan he wrote, "My gratitude to Prime Minister @ AbeShinzo for extending his good wishes. Strong relations with Japan is beneficial for both our nations."

"Personally, I have a wonderful experience of working with Japan as CM. I am sure we will take India-Japan ties to newer heights," said another tweet.
