
Big communications companies are again starting to pair up, putting pressure on the ones that don’t have a partner.

In the latest move, AT&T Inc. T, -0.06%  agreed to buy DirecTV DTV, -0.05%  for $49 billion to create a pay-TV and wireless-phone giant with about $160 billion in combined revenue and well over 120 million subscribers for various services.

The deal follows Comcast Corp.’s CMCSA, -0.37%  $45 billion agreement to buy Time Warner Cable Inc. TWC, -0.45% a merger that would create a huge broadband Internet provider and which forced executives across the telecommunications and technology industries to develop strategies for how to bulk up to compete.

Sprint Corp. S, +3.23%  , meanwhile, has continued forging ahead on a possible bid for smaller rival T-Mobile US Inc TMUS, +0.79%  .

Notably absent from the latest round of deal making is Charlie Ergen’s Dish Network Corp. DISH, -0.66% a satellite broadcaster, like DirecTV, but with its eyes on the wireless industry.

The AT&T deal kills two attractive options for Dish: an acquisition by AT&T and a merger with DirecTV. Many people on Wall Street thought a better deal for AT&T would have been to buy Dish, which has amassed valuable wireless airwaves, something carriers need to meet the growing demand from phones and tablets for streaming video and other data.

Now, Dish’s options have been severely trimmed. The government requires the company to begin putting its spectrum to use within the next few years, and Dish lacks a network or a partner with which to do that efficiently.

Eyes also are turning to Verizon Communications Inc. VZ, +0.22%  , which is bigger than AT&T in the wireless business but is still developing its video strategy. Verizon completed its $130 billion acquisition of U.K.-based Vodafone PLC’s 45% stake in their wireless joint venture this year, and the U.S. carrier said it is focused on integrating its wireless and wireline businesses and isn’t looking for major deals.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
