
Share This Story!

Burst of retail options parallels increase in population.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Bryce Peterson gets help Friday from Ryan Wentzel as he moves into Villas at Canyon Creek Apartments in Sioux Falls. The apartment complex is part of retail development at 57th Street and Sycamore Avenue.

During the next 20 years, southeast Sioux Falls will see major growth.

It’s already happening.

New apartment buildings and single family homes have replaced cornfields. The population there has exploded, and coming next are the shopping centers and restaurants to serve the people.

The timing is right. Before the recession, the city laid the groundwork in terms of water and sewer infrastructure and paved roads. Now that the economy has rebounded, homeowners are building and businesses are following them. Schools, parks and a fire station are in the long-range plan.

“It’s back, and it’s firing strong in that area of town,” said Joel Ingle of C-Lemme Cos.

His company is working with RMB Associates to lease shops and restaurants at the yet-to-be-built Market at Canyon Creek. If they can secure some tenants, their hope is to start construction this year at the corner of 57th Street and Sycamore.

Kristen Wentzel, 20, and Bryce Peterson, 23, are just the people he’s looking to serve.

They spent Friday moving to an apartment in one of two new buildings completed last winter at the Villas at Canyon Creek.

“We definitely wanted new,” Wentzel said.

Her last apartment, on the southwest side of town, was older, and with the previous tenant having lived there for 20 years, it never felt clean to her.

Now, she’s farther from work at the Hy-Vee Starbucks on 49th and Louise Avenue, but she’s close to her family.

“There’s a lot of new amenities coming out that way … making it more attractive, but we still have less traffic,” said Jill Madsen, president of Bender Midwest Properties, which built and manages the villas.

The first units in the 10-building complex were finished in 2012, and they’re consistently 90 percent full or more.

At the nearby intersection, real estate signs announce the coming of the Market at Canyon Creek, a Get-N-Go gas station and Briarwood Estates mixed-use development.

Highway 11 and 41st Street is another hub for growth in the southeast. Seven years ago, Kathy Dunn and her husband built the first home on their block of the Villas at Home Run development west of the intersection.

When they moved in, they were surrounded by cornfields and they could watch hot air balloons land from their back yard. Now they’re surrounded by houses.

Dunn can see why. Her husband had lived on the east side of town all his life and convinced her to move from the west when they got married. Now they can walk for dinner out at the Attic Bar and Grill, and shopping is a short drive to Walmart and the Dawley Farms stores.

Even more retail options are expected to come as the population grows.

“It doesn’t make a whole lot of sense for people to go out and start a business if there are no customers,” said Jeff Schmidt, chief planning and zoning official for the city of Sioux Falls.

The city’s job, he says, is to provide the infrastructure. Developers and businesses are left to figure out what’s right for the market.

It’s been seven years since the city added a new lift station on 57th Street and opened close to 10,000 acres to development in the southeast.

It took a few years to recover from the recession and put that newly opened southeast land to work.

“Now we’re seeing our city come back to life in terms of home construction,” Ronning Cos. Vice President Chuck Point said.

Ronning Cos. currently is laying water and sewer service for a development on 41st Street near Highway 11. Manifold Acres will have lots for about 70 homes, selling at $250,000 to $300,000.

Street work is continuing. Last year, Highway 11 and 57th Street got attention. This summer, the city will install utilities on Sycamore Avenue between 57th and 69th streets. Next year it will be paved and lined with sidewalks, curb and gutter.

Highway 11 eventually will turn into Highway 100, a beltway that will parallel Interstate 229. Next year, work will start to punch the northern segment through from Madison Street to Interstate 90. It eventually will connect to Interstate-29 at the Tea exit.

“Highway 100 is going to be a big deal,” Point said.

The new road will move development along even faster.

It also will serve as a commuter route for those southeast residents. For those who need to commute to the northwest part of town, where Citibank and Premier Bankcard are major employers, it will be a smoother drive from Highway 100 to Interstate 90 compared to using the city’s north-south corridors, such as Cliff Avenue.

• Commercial development, possibly a grocery store, Lloyd Cos.

57th S. & Sycamore Ave.

• Briarwood Estates residential and commercial development, Ronning Cos.
